There's not really a set way to refund
these tariffs [music] given how big the
amount of money is.
>> Our thought is that the the tariff
regime will continue
>> at some point. All these tariff
discussions will be settled.
>> The court might change the process.
Tariffs are here to stay.
>> Tariffs are an important tool that are
not going away.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance as we all sled to work here
in the Northeast. US futures and the
dollar dipping following Friday's
Supreme Court ruling on tariffs. Asian
markets getting a boost. Investors
seeing China and India [music] as the
biggest beneficiaries and a big week
ahead led by President Trump's State of
the Union speech tomorrow. Expect a lot
on tariffs and the Supreme Court as well
as Nvidia earnings on Wednesday. The
focus this morning very much on tariffs
as maybe Emory peak uncertainty is still
getting with us. There's a lot of
uncertainty right now when it comes to
the trade policy out of the United
States. Even we saw that over the
weekend. It went from 10% using a
different authority given the fact the
Supreme Court struck down AIPA to then
15%. And this is only being used for 150
days. We need to wait for the
administration to come out with what is
going to be the next avenue to legally
justify these tariffs. [music] In the
meantime, everyone's asking questions
about refunds and you have things like,
you know, entities like the European
Union saying, "Well, for now, we're
going to take a pause [music] because we
need more clarity, right?" So, there's
the uncertainty when it what it means in
terms of who gets refunds and when. The
uh commerce uh the Chamber of Commerce
actually put out an FAQ for small
businesses and what they can do. I read
through it. I didn't have that much more
clarity afterwards.
>> Yeah, exactly. Meanwhile, the European
Union is set to halt their trade deal as
you were mentioning uh based on just the
uncertainty that is abounding. What's
next given the fact that we went from 10
to 15% in 24 [music] hours? Well, I
think it depends if you are a country
that is negotiating with the United
States or if you are a small [music]
business or say a big business like
Costco and you've already lined up at
the US trade court for those refunds. It
is going to be an incredibly long rest
of [music] the year when it comes to
companies figuring out whether or not
they get refunds for last year. At the
same time, while that's playing out, the
administration is going to be working on
investigations using [music] a 232 or
301 to have the legal authority to
upstand the tariff rates that they deem
necessary. And meanwhile, it sets up
sort of an awkward paradigm for the
State of the Union, which was supposed
to be about affordability, about the
idea of bringing costs down for
families. Suddenly the focus is very
much going to be on trying to rally
people around tariffs as a tool and
possibly getting really angry at the
Supreme Court, right? And the president
will be addressing Supreme Court
justices likely who usually show up to
the State of the Union. You know, he was
asked about this when he briefed the
press Friday afternoon. Also very rare.
The president came out Friday afternoon
briefing briefing the press after the
Supreme Court [music] decision, not just
putting out a statement and he basically
was like, I could barely care if they
show up. But when it comes to
affordability, there was a brand new
Ipsus poll with the Washington Post and
ABC News. More Americans disapprove 64%
than approve of the president's [music]
tariffs and now he's doubling down on
them. Well, we'll get into that. Right
now, it seems like people are assessing
this and seeing a bit of a riskoff feel
in US [music] markets. Down about a
quarter of a percent for S&P futures.
You are seeing a pop though in China in
particular. Meanwhile, dollar weakness
not significant, but [music] still the
euro at 11798
and 10-year yields a little bit lower as
people assess what Walmart's earnings
mean when we get Home Depot and Lowe's
and some of the other uh consumer le
companies reporting later. Coming up
this hour, Peter Shear of Academy
Securities. [music] As a new wave of
uncertainty washes over markets, former
White House trade adviser Kay Kukowitz
on the Supreme Court's ruling and what
this means for the future of tariffs and
China Beigebook CEO Leland Miller
arguing that China is at the heart of
the AIPA fallout. We begin this hour
with stocks edging lower with concerns
growing over future US trade policy.
Peter Shear of Academy Securities
writing a strong ruling supporting the
AIPA tariffs may have posed more danger
to markets as it could have unleashed
another liberation day. Peter joins us
now. Peter, thank you so much for being
with us on this very snowy northeast
day. I'm just wondering why do you see
this as potentially being another
liberation day?
>> Well, I was kind of hopeful that it
wouldn't be, right? We got the ruling,
markets actually responded well, then we
saw 10% and then we saw 15%. So far,
you've got the show without mentioning
the word embargo. I had the strange
feeling that's going to come up. So, I
think we're going to see pressure on the
markets. I think markets would have been
relieved to get past the tariffs issue
and it seems like it's going to be front
and center again. How much is this going
to essentially crimp affordability in
terms of the debate certainly in
Washington DC in terms of consumer
spending if tariffs are sort of going up
and down and they don't get the refund
versus the opposite versus actually
being a reprieve. I was looking at for
example uh the Yale uh the Yale budget
lab and they were talking about how
tariffs went down from 16% to 9%
immediately after the AIPA ruling.
>> Yeah. And now they're back up. I I think
there's just going to be confusion. I'm
not sure how it's going to directly
translate into the affordability issue.
Um, you know, a lot of products have
already been ordered, some have been
paid for. I think this has confusion. I
think we're going to see what happens
with Iran in terms of oil prices. That
could be an issue. Again, I I felt we
are in general in a good direction where
we are headed in inflation and
affordability. Um, Friday's uh, you
know, PCE numbers did not support that.
But I am comfortable that inflation is
kind of you know the last story that we
need to be focusing on. We need to be
focusing on jobs and economic growth.
>> Well, Peter, when it comes to the tariff
policy, I'm thinking of China because
immediately the 10% fentanyl tariff gets
wiped off. Does this mean that China is
a better position as Trump prepares to
go there in early April?
>> I think there's a long time between now
and April, right? Again, this the ruling
did seem to suggest that he could use
embargo. He has not yet said he would do
an embargo. Given that he likes maximum
pressure, I expect a lot more noise as
he tries to put the clamp back down on
China. So that's why I'm a little bit
nervous about markets, right? This 10%
or 15%, it's not done.
>> You mentioned embargo twice. How would
that actually look like in reality?
>> I have no idea, but I don't think it
stops this, right? It's like you kind of
go back, right? We have no idea how
people are actually going to get their
tariff rebate claims paid, how that's
going to work. So this is a lot of stuff
that's happening kind of on the fly,
very, you know, loosey goosey for lack
of a better description. and a lot's
going to be challenged still in the
courts, but it seems that he was given
some leeway to do something on embargos.
That seems again a bit weird that you
can't impose tariffs, but you can impose
embargos. So, look for this
administration to do things I think to
reput the clamp on China and maybe even
on India. So, I think that will be bad
for markets.
>> It also raises a question about some of
the Iranian talks that are ongoing and
we are going to be speaking with Norman
Rule coming up, former intelligence
officer. How much do you expect some of
the geopolitical conflicts or potential
conflicts to heat up even further as
there is an effort to gain leverage?
>> Yeah, I expect Iran to we'll maintain
this kind of maximum pressure. I think
we don't see an attack for at least
another week or so. We still are
building up the resources and even if we
do attack, it'll probably be small just
to really keep Iran forcing, you know,
at the table and really negotiating in
good faith. I think Mexico can becomes
very very interesting. We had talked
about Mexico becoming maybe a platform
where during Q1 or Q2, Trump works with
Shine Bomb to rid the cartels from
Mexico. I think that we have a potential
for an opening there. It could get bit
scary. It's obviously very nasty and
over in the country right now and it's
horrible for tourists, but this could be
the first step to actually finally
eradicating the cartels in Mexico.
>> I got to say, Peter, my head's spinning
this morning. It seems like we're
playing whack-a-ole with a number of
different issues. On one hand, you have
the trade kurfuffle and what's going to
happen with respect to tariffs. what's
going to happen with negotiations. On
the other hand, you've got the
geopolitical overhang of Iran as well as
in Mexico. And then of course, you've
got Nvidia reporting earnings at a time
where I'm doom scrolling through my
Twitter feed, through my ex feed about
how this is going to eradicate all white
collar work. I mean, how much are you
expecting Nvidia to essentially suck all
the oxygen out of the room on Wednesday,
even amid all of the tariff uncertainty?
>> You know, I think we're going to look
for strong earnings. They've delivered
time and time again. Are we at the point
though, is that going to be enough? Are
strong earnings enough? um what happens
to sales and chip sales in the Middle
East? Does that slow down? Does that
grow? What's going on with sales to
China? I know the, you know, Nvidia
itself doesn't count any sales towards
China, but I think the market's been
pricing that in. So, I think a lot of
these things are back up in the air. So,
I expect some caution. I think the
market's going to tread, you know, down
a little bit and, you know, we could add
Bitcoin in, right? Bitcoin seems closer
and closer to getting these acts passed
and yet every day you look, it's down
further. So, I think it's kind of a
messy market. I think you're supposed to
stick to, you know, what's been working
and expect this rotation trade into, you
know, physical asset type companies that
maybe have lower margins that benefit
from AI. That's where I'm comfortable.
And I think you want to own the rest of
the world. Again, overweight versus US,
especially with what just happened,
though, right now, I'd probably sell
China on this pop because I think
there's more nastiness to come there.
>> How much do you expect the dollar
weakening trend to really reassert
itself? I mean, we see just a touch this
morning. It's nothing to really write
home about, but going forward, how much
do you expect the short positions that
are building to be right?
I I think they're going to see some of
that come back into play, right? Again,
we've moved pretty far. We had some, you
know, reestablishment um you know, and
bouncing, but yeah, I I think longer
term dollar weakness is there. And
again, is this going to question some of
the investment that was supposedly or
allegedly going to come into this
country? It's all up in the air. I think
we need clarity. And unfortunately, I
don't think this is a week we get
clarity. In fact, I think this is a week
we get again more noise, more rattling
the cages, and markets will not be happy
with that. Do bonds serve as some sort
of haven asset, especially in light of
the potential tariff issues, the fact
that are we going to get all of the
income that we previously had expected?
Is there going to be a $200 billion
refund to small businesses that were
tariffed?
>> I think that refund is going to take a
long time to play out. I think it's
going to be selective. I think there's
going to be pressure not to actually
claim the tariffs. I think a lot of
companies might just say, you know what,
this isn't worth the hassle. So, we'll
see where that all plays out. I think
treasuries, you know, we should be a low
4% on 10s, but again, I've been bullish
10 since like 425 here at that 405 406
or level. I'm a little bit more
indifferent. I think we got a little bit
more room to lower yields, but again, I
I think it's limited on how much of it
safe haven it can be at current yields,
given the inflation story, and given all
the uncertainty that's going on uh in
terms of tariffs, potentially embargos,
all these things.
>> When it comes to uncertainty, Stephen
Major was talking about how that
basically just means deferral of
decisions. That's not good for growth.
Peter, what kind of response do you
think we could see from Washington or
maybe the Federal Reserve?
>> You know, I think this ties back to to
your other question about, you know, AI
and jobs, right? Uncertainty is not good
for hiring, especially in this day and
age, right, where everyone's looking,
well, maybe I can just squeeze a little
bit out of AI and avoid that hiring. So,
I think this is really detrimental to
jobs. I continue to believe we will get
three cuts by September. I think the
market's not pricing in cuts fast enough
and I'm still willing to bet probably
50/50 that Powell delivers one cut and
it's going to be because of jobs and all
this uncertainty is going to add to that
jobs uncertainty and lack of hiring.
That's my big fear right now is we're a
little bit too comfortable with the job
situation and more comfortable than we
should be.
>> Peter Sheer of Academy Securities, thank
you so much and good luck out there
today. I I have to say, Emory, I don't
know about you, but yesterday I was not
that excited about hearing that we're
going to get two feet of snow here in
New York City
>> after we just had two feet of snow. What
it feels like two weeks ago
>> and it hadn't lasted. I mean, it lasted
forever and it turned uh black, which
was lovely or different shades of other
colors as well. And meanwhile, the
children were very excited. And I was
just thinking to myself, of course, you
would be.
>> Well, because Mandami has reversed
course and now it's a full-fledged snow
day. So, I'm sure the children are very
excited. They're watching.
>> I have a photo montage of them waiting
for the decision. They were waiting for
the drop. it looked like them waiting
for a jobs report uh and then getting
very excited when they found out. Right
now, let's get you an update on what's
going on out there as well as of course
other things happening around the world.
Here is your bloom brief with Yahihara
and Jihara. Hey Lisa, more than 35
million people across the US Northeast
are under blizzard warnings as [music] a
huge winter storm brings heavy snow and
howling winds. New York City Mayor Zora
Mandani closing streets, highways, and
bridges to most traffic from last night
through noon today. And as you said,
public schools are also closed as up to
24 ines of snow [music] may fall,
accompanied by high winds and coastal
flooding. Meanwhile, the US and Iran are
set to resume nuclear talks in Geneva on
Thursday. [music] The talks coming in
the face of a US military buildup in the
region. Iran's foreign minister says
Thran is working on a proposal [music]
for an agreement that meets the needs of
both parties. He also said the Islamic
Republic will not be pressured by the US
military buildup.
And Mexican authorities killed a top
drug [music] cartel leader in a military
raid in the western states of Kaliscoco.
The government says Namesio Ruben Oga
Cervantes, also known as Eleno, [music]
was killed along with six cartel
members. US officials celebrated the
killing as Mexico was under intense
pressure from President Trump [music] to
stop the flow of illegal drugs into the
US. That's been brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. The images overnight
pretty shocking coming from Mexico. Up
next, a tariff defeat.
>> The president [music] announced 15%
global tariff using a very robust
authority. The president remains
undeterred in his determination to lower
our trade deficit and bring
manufacturing back to the US.
>> Former White House trade official Kate
Kuwitz joins us next to hash through the
details. This is Bloomberg surveillance.
Good morning.
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance as we look to risk assets
in the US really fading just a touch.
[music] uh down about 210 of a percent
on S&P futures as people assess just how
much uncertainty [music] was thrown back
into markets as a result of the Scotas'
AIPA ruling. Meanwhile, a little bit of
dollar softness, just uh fading a touch.
The Euro dollar 11794 tenure yields
lower by about a [music] basis points
and crude uh getting a little bit of a a
breather after being bid up on the heels
of an Iran threat. Under surveillance
this morning, tariff [music] defeat.
The president still has the most
draconian measure uh for negotiations.
The president announced [music] on
Friday and then amended over the weekend
15% global tariff using a very robust
authority. The president remains
undeterred in his determination to lower
our trade deficit and bring
manufacturing back to [music] the US.
>> Here's the latest. The White House
defending President Trump's hike on
global tariffs to 15% on Saturday. Trump
raising the levy again after the US
Supreme Court struck down his sweeping
tariffs. Bloomberg's Mike Shepard and
Brendan Murray join us now. Mike, just
want to start with you about the
reversal that we got on Saturday. Why
did it go from 10% to 15%. Do we have
any more rationale?
>> Well, the rationale in part is that they
see this as a bridge to the next round
of tariffs that would replace the
authority that was struck down on
Friday. And the idea is that they would
not only have the revenue in place, but
they're also trying to send a signal to
trading partners that they do mean
business. It's not just about uh
ensuring that the uh you know a global
average tariff rate reaches a certain
point. It is also a sign of conviction
and they have tried to encourage trading
partners to abide by those agreements
that were struck when the tariffs uh
that were uh invoked under AIPA were
initially put into place. But so much of
that has been thrown into doubt and we
are seeing moves uh by the European
Union to revisit whether to approve the
US uh trade deal, the Turbury agreement.
And we've also seen India decide to
scrap a meeting that was scheduled later
this week to talk about its trade deal
with the US.
>> Well, and and Brendan, this is what
you've been tracking all morning. What
more details do we have on the European
Union, what freezing this ratification
process really means, and what leverage
the US still holds given the other tools
that are at play?
>> Yeah. Well, this is really going to
annoy Washington. Uh the fact that the
Europeans are are essentially putting
the brakes or at least suspending uh the
implementation of their end of the US uh
EU trade agreement. uh that the the the
US administration has been pretty vocal
recently uh and complaining about the
fact that the US the EU is dragging its
feet on these issues. And so the fact
that it's kind of uh it's it's they're
halting the implementation of it uh
until they get more clarity uh isn't
going to go over well with the Trump
administration. That said, most other
countries, if they're not saying it
publicly, are are in the a similar boat.
they there there is no clarity about uh
the the what really matters here and
that is that are the tools that the
Trump administration are going to use
next. Sure the tariff policy uh remains
in place and those will be uh the main
instruments by which the president will
try to carry out his economic agenda and
foreign policy agenda. But the tools uh
and the details of those are are remain
unclear if you're the if your exports
are on on the receiving end of those
tariffs. So they have questions in in
Brussels uh and and right across Asia,
those countries, some 20 of them that
have struck these deals with the US.
>> Mike Shepard, Brendan Murray, both of
you, thank you so much for being with
us. And Marie, we heard from Jameson
Grier, the US trade rep on a whole host
of different issues uh on the talk shows
yesterday saying that they're looking
for continuity. They're hoping that this
really does not shake some of the
agreements they've already gotten in
place. I just wonder what kind of
contingencies there are and what your
response is to the fact that some of
these deals seem to be breaking down.
>> Well, well, if it comes to the European
Union, they're pressing pause, but I did
speak to some officials abroad over the
weekend that have been dealing with the
administration. They're saying this
doesn't really change anything. We knew
that a Supreme Court was going to strike
down AIPA. This administration made it
very clear tariffs are going to stay.
They're just going to use other avenues.
Some of the individuals I talked about
mentioned 301's. So right now it's going
to be a 122 to a bridge to something
that's more legally binding like a 232
or 301 that we actually have in place
right now on certain sectors and
countries.
>> 122 to 232 301. Keep track. Former White
House trade adviser Kate Kut Kate Kukitz
writing the ruling may open space for
further litigation on other tariffs
imposed by the Trump administration.
Kate joins us now. Kate, have you slept
in 24 hours?
It's been an exciting weekend. You know,
the weekend we were always hoping for,
but as we say, it's always good to have
a Friday morning
to a Friday evening decision. So, we
were able to get some work in on Friday.
>> So, Kate, how much are companies trying
to sue to get some of the refunds to the
tariffs that they have paid over the
past six months?
>> Well, I think a lot of companies are
still waiting and seeing what's going to
happen. And I think the Treasury
Secretary yesterday said very clearly
that, you know, the federal government
will will abide by the lower courts. We
have to see how this plays out. Of all
the things the Supreme Court ruled on,
of course, they did not give clear
direction on refunds. So, I think a lot
of companies continue to be in a wait
andsee posture to to find out what
happens next there.
>> These are not just small businesses.
We're talking about Costco, talking
about Alcoa. How long could this take
when it comes to the US international
trade court and deciding whether or not
these companies get refunds?
>> Well, you know, we've not seen a
litigation like this before, so it's
hard to predict. And and even the
president in his conference on Friday uh
suggested that this litigation could go
on and on. So, you know, I I think some
companies of course will will lead the
litigation. We've seen Costco take a
leading role there. Um but but they're
the guinea pig in a way and I think
everyone else is is going to continue to
to employ cost-saving measures as they
can to deal with the tariffs. But you
know the reality is whether or not we
have AIPA or some other measure in place
a high tariff scenario is is where we're
going to be. So I think a lot of the
strategies these companies have been
using are going to have to continue to
be on the table. When it comes to AIPA
though, how much of the US trade policy
as a from last week on not currently
because it was struck down was tethered
to using AIPA?
>> Well, the trade strategy itself I think
of course is we have many authorities to
employ to to maintain very high tariff
rates. AIBA of course was a a tool of
the president. He liked to use it
because it was quick, it was fast, he
could take it on and take it off. But as
we've seen and as you just mentioned,
there are a number of other three
numbered uh authorities the president
can tap into. I think the most
significant difference uh not
necessarily with 122 which is just the
bridge to these other authorities. Uh
when we end up in a scenario with 301
tariffs or 232 tariffs, these become
much more durable and I think they
actually lead to a tariff environment
much more lasting beyond this particular
administration. So what we may end up
with here is a durable Trump tariff
scenario which we didn't have in the
AIBA environment.
>> Kate, I was looking into the Supreme
Court decision. The dissents as well as
some of the accompanying uh remarks from
Chief Justice Roberts and it seems like
the big message from the majority was,
"Hey, Congress, where are you? Why are
you not taking back the authority that
the that the Constitution gave you?"
What chance is there that a majority of
Congress members will actually vote for
tariffs at a time when they're up for
reelection and potentially affordability
issues will really make this politically
infeasible?
I think you just answered your own
question. I I don't think it's that
feasible. I mean, we've seen Congress,
not only this Congress, to be fair,
several successive Congresses, be
unwilling to take away this tariff
authority, uh, be willing to act in
favor of what we call trade promotion
authority to to use what what the
Constitution gave them to control the
power of tariffs. Uh, and as you
described, we are in a midterm scenario
where, you know, the issue of
affordability, the issue of tariffs, uh,
is very front and center. On one hand,
the Democrats want to use this issue, of
course, to to put pressure on the
administration and Republicans and have
them own this issue of raising rising
prices and affordability concerns. But
the Republicans can't cross President
Trump here. He issued a very firm uh
statement a few weeks ago that
criticizing the tariffs would be seen as
criticizing him. he will put pressure on
them to to certify these tariffs, but I
don't think the administration feels
they need Congress. So, I predict we
we'll see Congress continue to just uh
avoid taking their constitutional
responsibility and tariffs and leaving
the pressure with the president.
>> Kate Kwitz, thank you so much for being
with us as former White House trade
official after what has been a very busy
weekend. I saw you making a face about
the durability of some of these
terrorists, but it really raises this
issue given the fact as I was
researching it, 122 lasts for 150 days.
>> Never been used either.
>> It never has been used and then these
others come in, but there are tests that
they have to pass.
>> 232s and 301s are more durable because
they have investigations. My big
question is if the administration knew
that potentially they were going to get
held up in courts using AIPA, why did
they just do the work of 232s [music]
and 301's which require investigations
from the very beginning and we wouldn't
be in this situation?
>> I love how closely you're tracking this.
I'm really trying to keep up. [music]
122 301 I'll give you the list.
>> 232. You'll give us the list. Coming up,
we've got former sen senior US
intelligence official Norman Rule as US
is set to resume talks with Iran this
week. Plus yah on with your morning
movers international paper falling on
new [music] tariff concerns from New
York. This is Bloomberg surveillance
seeing just a bit of a riskoff [music]
tone as people assess what the fallout
will be from the Supreme Court's ruling
overturning the AIPA tariffs. We are
seeing that riskoff feeling more
significantly actually in small caps
which had been the outperformers.
Russell 2000 down 4/10en of a percent.
NASDAQ futures down 4/10en of a percent
as well ahead of Nvidia's earnings on
Wednesday. S&P futures lower by a
quarter of a percent 3 hours away from
the cash open. Here are your morning
movers with Yahira on it. Dehyra. Hi
Lisa. Another turn in the bidding war
for Warner Brothers Discovery. According
to a filing, the Justice Department is
taking a tougher stance as it evaluates
Netflix's uh 72 billion takeover.
looking not just at the deal but whether
[music] uh it gives Netflix outsiz
leverage over filmmakers and could
create a monopoly that deeper probe
could stretch the timeline [music]
potentially giving Paramount Guidance
more time to strengthen its offer uh
that so [music] for that reason shares
are up 1.6% in the pre-market turning to
VF Corp. This is an apparel maker.
Shares are falling 5.3% [music]
after JP Morgan downgraded the stock to
underweight, citing increasing tariff
pressures [music] on margins. That's
despite the Supreme Court ruling on
Friday, of course, striking down
President Trump's tariffs. [music] A
ruling that could in theory ease cost
pressures, but it appears the market is
waiting for more clarity before it
[music] prices that in. And we end on
International Paper. This is a box
company. Shares [music] are falling 5.3%
on the idea that mayor more tariffs
could mean le fewer boxes needed for
[music] shipping. Lisa, thank you so
much. Yhierra, I'm trying again to sort
of play out all of the implications. On
our radar this morning, President Trump
announcing plans [music] for new 15%
global tariffs after Friday's Supreme
Court decision struck down most of his
sweeping levies. The president's new
plan is likely to face legal challenges
and create more economic volatility.
That's what you're seeing baked into the
markets this morning. The EU following
onto that is preparing to freeze the
ratification process of its US trade
deal until receiving policy details from
the Trump administration. Trade
negotiators in European Parliament
telling Bloomberg we have no other
option. And Emry, I know you've been
speaking with a lot of trade reps on
both sides of the uh of the Atlantic.
And I'm just curious how they're viewing
this given the fact that it wasn't
entirely unexpected.
>> Not entirely unexpected. And I think the
conversations a lot of these trade reps
outside of the United States dealing
with the US administration have been
told basically if the Supreme Court was
going to strike down a we are going to
find those other avenues. Some of them I
specifically spoke to said that they
knew the administration was going to
conduct the investigations for say a 301
that would be a country specific or 232
an industry specific tariff. So this 122
as the secretary of treasury and Jameson
Greer over the weekend talked about it.
The USR ambassador this is a bridge to
more of those what Kate Lutz was saying
legally durable tariff levels. You just
have to ask why didn't they do this from
the beginning because it feels like
we're having liberation day part two or
liberation day light right now in 2026.
>> Well that's certainly what Peter Shear
was saying and Christine Lagarde the ECB
president saying you want to know the
rules of the road before you get in the
car. It's the same with trade. So going
to that point of certainty, I wonder how
much push back we're getting because of
political opinion as well domestically
in places like Europe or for example in
Canada and also potentially what does
this mean for a country like the United
Kingdom and Australia which had a deal
at 10%. Now they are waking up with a
15% tariff level under this new section
that the president is using 122 which
has never been used before when they
already struck a deal at 10%. This is
where part of the confusion and a little
bit of the chaos is coming from.
>> It does feel a bit like whack-a-ole
because on one hand you have the trade
kurfuffle and a question of what
uncertainty lies ahead. On the other
hand you have AI with Nvidia reporting
earnings. And then on the other hand you
have a question about the integrity of
markets and what we don't see. Private
equity reportedly returning fewer
profits to investors for a fourth
straight year. Uh this is coming as you
do have the industry sitting on $3.8
trillion of unsold assets. A new report
from Bane finding distributions as a
percentage of net asset value are at the
second lowest level since the 2008
financial crisis. This plays into some
of the fears that people have about
private credit and private equity.
>> And they started in October with Jamie
Diamond saying there's one cockroach,
there's others. And then also Muhammad
Alan saying potentially does this mean
liquidity crisis like we saw in 2008.
When you look at the Bane Research Note,
the head of the global private practice
said the uncertainty caused by Trump's
liberation day tariffs put a sudden
break on deal activity that looked like
it was gang busters as recently as
January of last year. And I wonder if we
just have that same story continuing
into this year as well. As we just said,
this is Liberation Day light. So in the
whack-a-ole, it goes from trade to
private equity to geopolitics. And we do
have to focus on that. Crude coming off
their highest level since July. The US
and Iran are preparing for another round
of nuclear talks. The two sides are set
to meet on Thursday in Geneva.
Bloomberg's Will Kennedy joins us now.
Well, can you just give us a sense of
what the equation is for oil markets,
which typically are the first to react
to any kind of conflict in the Middle
East.
>> Good morning, Lisa. Yeah, oil a tiny bit
softer today, but that's after a
significant runup of 6% yesterday, Brent
at around $72 a barrel. And that was
clearly on concern that there would be
some kind of military action in the
Gulf. And it it going into the rest of
the week, it becomes quite binary. Will
these talks on Thursday yield an
agreement? Uh will Trump do decide to
strike either before or after? I think
the comments from the Iranian oil
foreign minister that there could be a
deal uh was welcome news for the oil
market. But clearly as long as those two
carrier groups remain in place and we
have this unprecedented buildup of naval
US forces in the region, the risk of
military action is going to be there.
And the great unknowable for markets is
how Iran would respond, whether they
would uh take action that restricted the
flow of oil out of the Gulf of uh the
Persian Gulf through the straight of
Hormuz, which of course could impact not
just Iranian exports but Iraqi, Saudi,
Q80 and Emirati exports too and be a
huge event for the global oil market.
>> Well, Kennedy, thank you so much for
that and we will be watching that.
Former senior US intelligence official
Norman Rule joins us now. Norm, thank
you so much for being with us. Will was
just talking about how it's unknowable
exactly what any kind of Iranian
response would be to US action. What's
your take on how close we are right now
to some sort of hot war in the region?
>> Good morning. Uh we're we're approaching
an inflection point. Uh Thursday
represents the third round of talks and
the United States uh will be looking to
see if Iran's uh proposal its written
proposal from uh uh the supreme with the
supreme leader's approval will show any
indication of softening the Iranian
position that is unlikely. Uh but uh if
there is uh no change in the Iranian
position, then we are rapidly
approaching the uh end of the
president's uh deadline um uh for uh uh
some sort of significant change in
Iran's position on its nuclear program,
missiles, and regional militia building.
That's going to be about March 3rd. Uh
based on the original February 20th
announcement, the president has all
assets in place to conduct a massive uh
air and missile campaign against Iran's
strategic capabilities against which
Iran has no uh uh credible uh defense.
Uh therefore leaving it only external uh
operational uh capabilities which it
will likely uh employ. So, Thursday is
going to be an indicator of uh whether
we're going to see uh any significant uh
change in the direction of this uh
initiative.
>> Well, Steve Wickoff, who will be there
on Thursday, Norm said to Fox News over
the weekend, the president is quote
curious why Iran has not shifted course
despite mounting US pressure in the
region. Do you think Iran will come back
to the table with any sort of change of
heart given the vast array of military
hardware right now in the region?
>> Well, Iran needs to buy time. Iran needs
to uh extend this process. Iran also
needs to promote debate in the United
States and debate between the United
States and its partners abroad. So Iran
needs to come up with enough of an offer
to keep the US at the table, enough of
the offer to uh to promote a debate
between the president and his advisers
that perhaps diplomacy has hope, but not
to uh uh do anything that would uh
provoke uh uh the initiation of military
action which would threaten an an end to
the regime. Well, when it comes to how
Iran thinks about this, when it comes to
the regime's survival, what is worse,
potentially capitulating at the
negotiating table or having to deal with
a military assault?
>> I think you're you're you're touching
the heart the matter here. There is uh
highly likely a significant debate
ongoing within Iran on that very
question. Uh the president and uh his
adviserss are almost certainly
attempting to shape that debate uh uh
through the presence of the US military
forces and the diplomatic campaign
against Iran just as Iran is attempting
to shift the debate in the United States
on this entire initiative uh through its
defiance, its use of only indirect
negotiations, its use of uh engagement
with partners and allies. So there there
debates in within each each side as to
what the direction of where they take uh
uh the future of their countries on on
their engagement with the other.
>> There's a lot of reporting the president
has yet to make a decision. But Norm,
given all of your years of experience,
have you seen this sort of military
buildup, which we haven't seen since
2003, pre-invasion of the Iraq war, and
then an executive not decide to have at
least at minimum a minimal strike. Well,
to be clear, we have never seen this
be clear, we have never seen this sort
sort of military buildup in against the
of military buildup in against the
Islamic Republic in the history of the
Islamic Republic in the United States.
We have also not seen this level of uh
of military buildup in the Middle East
since 2003. Uh we have also not seen
this level of military buildup without
the United States employing that
military buildup at some point. Well, to
military buildup at some point. So, it's
going to require some significant uh
concession by the Iranian government to
uh uh to justify uh a withdrawal of that
military contingent.
>> Norm, how stressed is the US naval
contingent given the fact that some of
these deployments have been pretty long
and have been extended pretty
significantly?
>> Well, the deployments have been long,
but this is an incredibly well-trained
uh force. There is absolutely no
evidence whatsoever that the uh US
forces have been stressed in any way to
the point that it would degrade
operational capability or morale or uh
uh on any other indicator that would
reduce uh uh uh the threat it poses to
Iran or the uh uh the the u operational
uh ability this force to manage the
mission the president has put in front
of it.
>> Norm just on a broader scale, how
imminent is the threat coming from Iran
right now? Now, in other words, is this
the right time to make some sort of
strike or make some sort of ultimatum
given the fact that there could be
potentially a rebuilding of the nuclear
capabilities? And there's still Israeli
questions around how much they can go
back to their former strength.
>> I think there's a different way of
looking at the question. Uh the United
States and Israel have severely
degraded, if not destroyed, Iran's
nuclear weapons capability. Do we want
them to rebuild that capability or do we
want to do something to stop them from
rebuilding their capability? Iran's
missile program is advancing in its
sophistication and it is a genuine
threat to Israel and partners in the
region and it is moving in the direction
of an intercontinental ballistic missile
which is a threat to the United States
and Western Europe. Do we want to stop
that or not? And the goods force which
creates all of the militias in the
region is still exa in existence and it
is going to try to rebuild those
militias. Hezbollah, Hamas and the
Houthi still exists. Do we want to stop
that or not? So the question is really
this. Do you want to kick the can down
the road and pay the price later or do
you want to do something about it now
while Iran is facing all of these
stresses? So the president's approach
has a logic to it, a significant logic.
This is a moment to do something. The
question is, do you want to pay that
price now or risk paying a higher price
later?
>> Former senior US intelligence official
Norman Rule always wonderful and
insightful. Thank you so much for being
with us right now. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yahira Anandhra.
>> Hi Lisa. More than 35 million people
across the US Northeast are under
blizzard warnings as a huge [music]
winter storm brings heavy snow and
howling winds. New York City Mayor Zoran
Mamdani closing streets, highways, and
bridges to most traffic from last night
through noon today. Public schools are
also closed as up [music] to 24 ines of
snow may fall accompanied by high winds
and coastal flooding.
President Donald Trump wants former US
ambassador to the United Nations, Susan
Rice, removed from the Netflix board.
The president's posting on Truth Social,
[music] quote, "Netflix should fire
racist Trump deranged Susan Rice
immediately or pay the consequences."
The post comes in response to Republican
political activists who quoted Rice
[music] as saying corporations who took
a knee to Trump will face an
accountability agenda from [music]
elected Democrats.
And over in Mexico, authorities killed a
top drug cartel leader in a military
raid in the western state [music] of
Halisco. The government says Nessio
Ruben Oggera Cervantes, also known as
Eleno, was killed along with six cartel
[music] members. US officials
celebrating the killing as Mexico is
under intense pressure from President
Trump [music] to stop the flow of
illegal drugs into the US. That's brief.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahra, up next,
holding China accountable.
>> The purpose of the meeting with
President Xi, it's not to it's not to
fight about trade. It's to maintain
stability, make sure that the Chinese
are holding up their end of our deal and
buying American, you know, agricultural
products and Boeings and other things
and making sure they're sending us the
rare earth that we need.
>> Be CEO Leland Miller joining next as
people reassess exactly how that
relationship's going to progress in
light of the AIPA ruling. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
Welcome back to Bloomberg Surveillance.
We are seeing just a little bit of a
riskoff move in US equity futures,
although that's really fading as the
morning goes on in terms of just how
[music] wide the losses are. 4/10 of a
percent decline on the S&P. The dollar
clawing back some of the losses from
earlier this morning. An interesting
note from kit jukes general. We're now
past the peak tariff levels. The biggest
winners are going to be in EM, but
positioning data still shows a large and
growing net short position limiting
dollar weakness from here. So maybe that
is part of what's going on under the
hood, under surveillance this morning,
holding China accountable.
>> The purpose of the meeting with
President Xi, it's not to it's not to
fight about trade. It's to maintain
stability, make sure that the Chinese
are holding up their end of our deal and
buying American, you know, agricultural
products and Boeings and other things
and making sure they're sending us the
rare earth that we need. It's really
about monitoring that agreement. Uh if
there are places for additional
agreement, we'll find them and
developing the president's relationship
with each other.
>> Here's the latest. The White House
gearing up for talks between President
Trump and Chinese President Xi next
month as China gains leverage after the
Supreme Court's tariff reversal. US
trade representative Jameson Greer says
trade deals made with partners still
stand. Leland Miller of China Beige Book
joins us now. Leland, you had a great
note over the weekend and thank you for
being with us where you talked about how
this really does spotlight the China US
relationship and creates a real
challenge for the United States going
forward. Can you just explain your view?
Well, the the tariff regime has
completely changed in some ways. The
authority has changed, but now you have
15% tariffs announced on the world. Now,
for some allies, they're not going to be
very happy about that because they had
10% negotiated or they had close to 15%
negotiated. So, there's a lot of
questions around allies and partners,
you know, are we worse off than the deal
that we thought we had with the
administration? But the larger picture
is about China because if you remember,
you know, China's uh tariff rates for
most of last year were much higher than
the rest of the world. Now, when we look
at our internal estimates, we had about
a 21 to 22 uh% uh effective tariff rate
for the year. Last year, we had a rate
that was around 30% as we close the
year. uh since you know the very end of
last year you had a 10% uh of the
fentanyl tariff taken off uh as part of
the busous day tant uh the President
Trump negotiated with president Xi and
then the court just supreme court just
invalidated another 10%. So what's
happening with China tariffs is they're
coming down down down down down. If
you're trying to maintain a bilateral
deficit trend, which which you really
celebrated if you were this
administration, which was much less
reliance on China, you're you're looking
at yourself in 2026 and saying we either
need to get those tariffs back up or we
need to understand that the bilateral
trade deficit with China is about to
surge back in the other direction.
>> China, [clears throat] how much leelin
does this really affect the meeting that
President Trump has in China that starts
on March 31st. It goes till April 2nd.
This sort of sets up an awkwardness in
terms of how hard can the US go after
China ahead of that.
>> Well, it's only awkward if the White
House makes it awkward. You know, they
have a decision in front of them, which
is we either raise tariffs back up to
where they were, you know, ballpark last
year, which created the trend that we're
very, very proud of, which is this, you
know, declining reliance on Chinese
production and Chinese supply chains. or
we try not to antagonize Beijing in the
run-up to the summit and we deal with
the consequences which is going to be a
shift back towards towards greater
reliance on China uh towards uh you know
a a a more reliance on Chinese supply
chains and greater Chinese competitive
competitiveness across the board. So
there's a real strategic question the
White House has to answer right now and
uh you know we're waiting we're waiting
to see how they answer it. Leland, when
it comes to what the United States has
effectively on China in terms of a rate,
what is it now given the fact that there
was the 10% levied on China on top of a
higher rate, reciprocal rate that they
negotiated at the trading uh at the
trading table?
>> That's a great question. I mean, we have
our own internal estimates and we work
with others on theirs. You know, at the
end of last year, you know, there was
all this talk about how the the
effective tariff rate on China was 57%
and then it got brown brought down to
47% in Busousan. Uh it was actually a
lot less than that. Uh you know, we had
it around 30% towards the end of last
year. If you start taking off another
10% of the fentanel tariffs, you're in
the 20s right now. Uh so it's it's it's
uh it's really a question of how much
the divergence is between China and the
rest of the world. The thing that people
have to really keep in mind is it's not
about absolute tariff rates for the most
part. It's about how much is your tariff
differential versus your rival
producers. So if China's competing
against Mexico or Southeast Asia or
India, what is the differential that
incentivizes people to move production
out of China to those other allies and
partners? And if the differential is
shrinking, shrinking, shrinking, it
means that the trends that come from
that are going to be not very helpful.
When it comes to the meeting that's
upcoming, as Lisa pointed out, the
president heading over to Beijing late
March, early April, does China now have
the leverage given the fact that the
president's own Supreme Court told him
his tariffs were illegal?
>> I don't think so. I think that what's
happening right now is is a tariff
regime that was uh is being replaced by
another tariff regime that's roughly
going to be the same thing for 2026. And
one of the things that we focused on uh
you know, in in the note you referenced
is showing that look, tariff rates are
not collapsing. understand that, you
know, there's a headline rate that seems
lower than it was in 2025, but you look
broadly speaking around the globe,
that's mostly consistency from 2025 to
2026. What you don't have is in a
handful of countries, you're going to
have a very different situation. China
being one of them. So, as the the White
House gears up to go over to Beijing and
and have a conversation with President
Xi, they have to be thinking, what
exactly we dangling and what exactly do
we want? Now, I don't think they know
what the answer to those questions is,
but right now tariff relief was one of
the things they were talking about
dangling. They don't have tariff relief
uh as something to dangle at this point
anymore. So, are they going to give up
more technology? Are what do they want
from China? I think these are going to
be some very difficult conversations in
the White House for the next couple
weeks. A number of strategists Leland
have talked about concerns at least by
the United States and by Japan in
particular that one of the negotiating
chips is going to be Taiwan and the US
taking a more lazy fair attitude with
either buildup of troops or potentially
some of the communications coming out of
the US in terms of how we categorize
Taiwan. Do you think that that's
feasible?
>> Look, anything's feasible, but I I
certainly hope it's not the case. If if
you look at what a trade deal should be
talking about, it should be mostly
trade. it should not be talking about
whether you're selling out your allies
and partners. So I I think that there's
an interest on the Chinese side but not
an expectation that Taiwan is going to
be a big issue on the table. So I don't
see any reason to hand them something
that they don't need uh particularly
when it under you know undercuts decades
of US policy. I think the president's
trying to trying to keep uh you know uh
close uh you know closed lips right now
going in to maximize his leverage. But I
I think that right now it's it's the
White House's job to figure out what do
we want from China? What are we willing
to give them? And what you know, what
are the signals we want to be sending in
the aftermath that don't show the United
States having come to the table and then
giving up a bunch of stuff that we
didn't need to do.
>> China Beij CEO Leland Miller, thank you
so much for being with us and stay safe
this morning. I hear it's piling up
pretty significantly.
>> Yeah, it's pretty bad out there um as a
co as what's happening between text
messages and emails. A lot of people
thanking us, Lisa, for making our way
in. But there's really low visibility
and the snow just is non-stop and
there's tons of wind. Oh, so it's very
scary
>> and there's low visibility when it comes
to tariffs as well, which is a reason
why we are here in part because it is a
significant change in terms of policy
and in terms of how this is going to be
used as a negotiating tool given the
fact that some of the leverage that the
president had seems to have been taken
away at least for the moment.
>> Right. because AIPA gave him this broad
swath of leverage to, as Cake Lucu had
said, turn tariffs off, turn tariffs on,
and really no limit to the rates. But
Leland made a really good point. Tariff
rates are not collapsing. There are
still pretty high tariff rates. And when
it comes to this meeting in Beijing, it
definitely got a lot more interesting
following the Supreme Court decision.
But when you hear from what Leland said
or what ambassador Jameson Greer said
over the weekend, it's really about
managing the Dayton tant right now and
making sure China continues to buy
agricultural products, Boeings, and that
they continue as well sending rare
earths to United States. So the El
Budget Lab put out a fantastic chart.
I'm sure you looked at it extensively as
did a lot of people I know out uh in the
markets that before AIPA was uh tariffs
were struck down, consumers faced an
overall tariff rate of about 16%.
Following that AIPOA ruling, it fell to
9.1%. Then the section 122 tariffs came
on and it rose to 13.7, but that's off
at 150 days and will fall back to 9.1%
[music] except for not only 122, 232.
You start going through the list. Coming
up next, Brio of JP Morgan, Henry of
Trades, Eva [music] Partners, Crispen
Love of Piper Sandler and Torson Sllock
of Apollo as we parse through the
fallout from both the tariff ruling as
well as of course Nvidia earnings coming
up on Wednesday. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> The world's broadening out and it's
speeding up. There are signs of stress
in the equity market.
>> The economy is doing okay.
>> We probably are going to have to go and
look at our Q1 GDP forecast and boost
those.
>> I don't think things are as K-shaped as
the narrative often portrays. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with [music]
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. As most people in the
Northeast are hold watching the snow
fall down, US futures slightly lower
with investors mulling the fallout from
Friday's Supreme Court ruling. Questions
still looming about the fate of private
credit amid Blue Owl's retail fund drama
and eyes turning toward Wednesday.
Nvidia earnings with AI still looking
like the biggest story of the year. Once
we get past what we're looking at right
now, which is very much trade confusion
given the fact [music] that right now,
Emory, it does feel like uh people are
seeing everything just thrown up in the
air. Deja vu liberation daylight. How
many times have analysts come [music] on
this program and said we're past peak
tariff uncertainty? Well, it feels like
we're not at this moment given the fact
the AIPA has been struck down by the
Supreme Court and the administration is
going through all the other policy
proposals they can enact to have [music]
more durable tariff policy. Right now,
they're using section 122. It's never
been used before. It only lasts for 150
days and Congress may need to step in.
But what you hear from the
administration, they say that is a
bridge [music] to have something more
sustainable. But Leland Miller, I think,
said it very well. Tariff rates are not
collapsing. So why it's interesting the
market is still struggling to figure it
out.
>> Well, frankly, I think that there's a
whole lot of confusion. People don't
know what to focus on this morning.
That's what it feels like in terms of
some of the market reaction. On Friday,
we got a market that rallied in the
United States. [music] Then, of course,
Saturday, the 15% maybe causing a bit
more uncertainty. There are a host of
other issues. You talked about Iran.
[music] We have private credit concerns
and of course the Nvidia earnings. But
it does feel like right now markets are
just in a turn. The dollar's regained
some of its weakness from earlier. I
don't get a sense of exactly what the
big fear is here behind some [music] of
this weakness.
>> I think maybe the uncertainty when it
comes at least the tariff story is the
fact that we don't know yet how the
refunds are going to play out. That
[music] is going to be weeks and months
of being judicated in the courts and
that's $170 billion. What does that mean
for the deficit? if all of that money
gets repaid, say to Costco, Alcoa, and a
ton of small businesses that lined up
for those rebates if the Supreme Court
made the decision they ended up making
on Friday,
>> which is a reason why I'm surprised that
today [music] yields are down. Let's
take a look at what's going on. You're
seeing S&P futures lower. Uh they have
been kind of bouncing around, lower by
about 4/10en [music] of a percent, now
down about third of a percent. You can
see the dollar reclaiming uh some of its
stability at least basically flat versus
the euro but fluctuating between gains
and losses with a question of whether
this does prompt the Federal Reserve to
cut rates more significantly whether the
US loses luster [music] crude doing
nothing and tenure yields lower by about
a basis point essentially nobody knows
what to do and everybody snowed in
anyway so maybe just stay home with your
kids coming up we have Pria Misra of JP
Morgan as tariff uncertainty shakes
Marcus crispen love of Piper Sandler as
blue owl sparks renewed private credit
concerns and tourist and slack of Apollo
as Fed officials eye potential tariff
refunds as AMH was just talking about.
We begin this hour with stocks just
dipping as President Trump imposes new
global tariffs. Pria Misra of JP Morgan
writing policy uncertainty over who gets
refunds and whether new tariffs are
stacking maintains the headwind to
capex. Priya joins us now to help
explain all of this confusion. Pria, do
you have a clear sense of whether this
ruling is good or bad for the US
economy?
Thanks for having me. No, I think uh you
know the so I'd say a couple of things
in in terms of the average effective
tariff rate. I mean that's probably
slightly lower. But here's the issue.
The policy uncertainty to your point is
this good or bad? Policy uncertainty is
has has just gone up. So we don't know
refunds. We don't know. You know, we
heard that that section 122 is a bridge
to some point. But to what point? You
know, what what kind of 301 tariffs are
we going to get? what sort of 232
tariffs are we going to get? So I think
policy uncertainty has just gone up. If
you look at non- tech capex last year it
was negative which is actually very rare
in a nonrecession year we typically do
have some capex. So I think this
headwind to hiring potentially to capex
I think that stays uh it it might have
actually increased but you know I'm
hoping we'll get more clarity. I'm
hoping we'll hear around these
reciprocal trade deals that were done
with the UK with Australia. Maybe we'll
get some clarity on that. So right now
it's a bit of wait and watch. I think
that's why the market really hasn't
reacted all that much. I think
rightfully so. The fiscal concerns are
long-term. I don't think refunds even if
all of them are paid out quickly, which
I really struggle with. I'm not sure
that we should be really panicking about
the deficit here. Treasuries are doing
what they do. They're looking at
fundamentals and the fundamentals of the
economy are okay but inflation slowly
heading lower and if tariff rate is
going to be slightly low I think some of
that concern around inflation is going
to be a bit lower as well.
>> So Pria let's pick apart the threads
that we do have in terms of the
narrative ahead of this ruling. People
were talking about how it would be a
riskoff event for bonds if AIPA was
overturned as a basis for President
Trump's tariffs simply because those
refunds and the revenues would really
decrease uh some of what has been the
bullcase for bonds. We're seeing yields
a little bit lower today, not really
doing much. Why hasn't there been a
bigger response from fixed income?
>> So I think to some extent the market was
expecting that there would be some
backup plan around tariffs. I mean you
know I think the world trading order has
changed. I think tariffs are part of the
policy toolkit and so I think the
expectation was whether it was 122 301
232 there would be some tariffs. So I
think you know it was expected that
tariffs are here to stay. I think the
other thing is the market I mean you
know you've been talking about is this
liberation day light. I would say
actually it's very different today
compared to a year ago because while
tariffs are here to stay the concern a
year ago was is the US disengaging from
the world. I don't think you know
everything that's happened over the last
year that's not happening. We're not
disengaging. Whether you look at what's
happening on the military front or you
look at all the trade deals you know
there was this inflation fear that
perhaps inflation would really
skyrocket. Inflation's been remarkably
stable and we think if you look at the
underlying trends that inflation by the
end of the year is going to get closer
to 2 and a half potentially even lower
than that and then there was this
concern around sell America and you know
all of the data suggests there was
perhaps a buy America there was a hedge
dollar but we didn't see across asset
classes the sell America trade so I
think that the reason bonds are not
reacting is some of those fears the wall
of worry that we were talking about for
treasuries or fixed income
We've sort of climbed over that and now
we're back to fundamentals. We're
looking at, you know, what is the
unemployment rate likely to pick up. The
Fed cut rates last year. We expect them
to cut rates at, you know, in the second
half of this year. And inflation just
sort of heading closer to that, you
know, 2% level. I think that's why the
bond market is and the bond market is
doing what bond what it should do. It's
acting as a diversifier to risk assets.
We've seen that, you know, over the last
few months when you've had risk, you
know, risk market concerns, whether it's
AI fears, whether it's some weak
economic data, bonds have given you that
balance. I think that's why the bond
markets a lot more calmer this time
around compared to last April.
>> Pria, do you think potentially the bond
market won't be calm though when we
potentially have $170 billion of refunds
being paid out to small businesses and
big companies for the tariffs they paid
last year?
So that's fair that some of the um
incoming in you know revenues to the US
Treasury would be lower and they would
have to figure out how to make make the
refund. So let's say I'll give you the
worst case scenario for the bond market
that you could argue is the tariff
refunds go out right away. So tomorrow
you can go to the bank and get those
refunds the entire amount. The Treasury
would have to raise potentially 170
billion. They've got that much cash
sitting at the Fed. So there's no
immediate financing need. Um, and I
think when I think about the overall
deficit, it's a drop in the bucket. Now,
if we were completely giving up on
tariffs and revenues would be much
lower, I think you could argue maybe the
fiscal trajectory will be worse. But I
think we're just replacing AIPA with
other forms of tariffs. So the going
forward revenue rate, I worry less about
that. So even in that scenario, I mean
where I would get concerned is if we get
tariff, you know, some uh tariff
dividend or additional fiscal easing, we
have the state of the union, do we get
some additional stimulus checks being
talked about? I think then the bond
market will pay attention. But even if
the refunds go out quickly, I don't
think there's an immediate financing
need. There's no concern that the
deficit is a problem right here, right
now. I think it's a long-term issue with
entitlements that needs to be resolved.
Now I don't think the bond market will
worry even if we get certainty around
quick tariff uh you know refunds.
>> Ria, as you're talking amid a beautiful
sunny backdrop, we do get a truth social
post from President Trump. It is a very
long one. I'm not going to read the
whole thing or I think it would uh lead
to a very long long uh diet tribe. But
the Supreme Court will be using
lowercase letters for a while based on a
complete lack of respects of the United
States. accidentally and unwittingly
gave me as president of the United
States far more powers and strength than
I had prior to the ridiculous, dumb, and
very international uh divisive ruling.
He went on to say he can use licenses to
charge foreign countries and he can do
terrible things to countries. Amry, do
you have a sense of what he is talking
about when it comes to taking away
licenses or using licenses to
potentially go after uh competing
nations? Well, licenses are government
permits, legal documents that gives
companies or entities the right to trade
with a government. And I think this goes
back to what Peter Cheer said at the
very start of the program. He's waiting
for Trump to talk about maybe an
embargo. Basically saying, I'm not going
to allow licenses for companies to
trade. This would be a quite nuclear
option. I think we need to understand a
little bit more what the president is
talking about here. But he does talk
about the fact that he can use licenses
to do terrible things to countries and
potentially why that's there's a lot of
uh consternation in the market because
they're trying to understand can this
get worse before it gets better. And
what you are seeing is just a little bit
more of a riskoff feel when it comes to
uh equity futures in the United States
but not a significant move. Pria, just a
final word on what kinds of retaliation
could come in terms of whether some of
the risk haven as aspect of bonds could
be tested or whether this just supports
it.
>> You know, I think whether it's this risk
around export license, I think this is
just reinforcing policy uncertainty and
uh you know, maybe this is a negotiating
tool as we have trade deals or at least
trade frameworks with a lot of our
trading partners. Is this a way to say
we stand behind the US stands behind
these trade deals, you should as well,
you should ratify it, not freeze it. I
mean, I would think that to your point,
maybe this is the nuclear option. I I
mean, I think ultimately we think about
businesses and if you've held back on
hiring because you're concerned about
trade uncertainty, this is not making it
better because, you know, I was
listening on Friday, people said, well,
peak tariff is behind us, peak
uncertainty is behind us. No, I think
we're in a plateau of uncertainty and
we're going to stay in one and that's
going to be a headwind for hiring as
well as capex. So I think we just focus
on fundamentals and the economy is
resilient but I don't see signs of any
reacileration and so the Fed should
still continue to over time get rates
closer to neutral potentially
accommodative territory.
>> Bria Misra of JP Morgan thank you and
you can trademark that plateau of
uncertainty because I have a feeling
we're going to be using it a lot going
up forward. If you want more
uncertainty, New York City is under a
state of emergency as much of the East
Coast faces blizzard conditions. Lionel
Moyes of ABC News joins us now. Lionel,
how far have we gone in the storm? How
big are the totals and what's ahead?
>> Hey, Lisa. Yeah, we're kind of in the
middle of it. We're not in the clear
just yet. So, the sun has come up. We've
gotten a reprieve for like 3 seconds.
I'm sure as soon as I'm done with this
live hit, snow is going to knock me
over. It has been quite windy. The snow
is very big and it's been coming down
about 3 in an hour. Several parts of our
area already have a foot of snow. They
are on track to get up to 2 ft of snow
and that is why classes are cancelled
for public schools for students here.
And there is a travel ban here across
the city of New York at least until
noon. We are expecting an update from
the mayor around 100 pm. So that could
also change, but they have been urging
people to stay off the roads if they do
not need to be on them so the critical
workers can get the roads plowed. A snow
plow actually overturned leading into a
hazmat situation a little bit earlier,
which is another example of why they
just do not want people out there. With
all of this, there have been widespread
power outages. 5,000 flights canled
today, 10,000 through tomorrow, and we
do expect to continue to see a ripple
effect. Now, the silver lining or the
good news is for the younger kids, and
that is because it is a true snow day,
so there isn't school. There's no remote
learning, but I would imagine that they
will be out here in all of this helping
their parents clean up as well. Back to
you, Lisa.
>> I'm sure that that's exactly what they
had in mind. ABC's at Lionel Moise,
thank you so much for being with us. And
that's I'm sure what we all hope is that
they're out there shoveling. But
ultimately the real question for them is
what about Tuesday? Is it going to be
shut down too?
>> Well, also apparently the mayor is
saying that anyone can show up. You have
to have a certain level of
documentation. I think a license, two
level documentation, two methods of
documentation,
>> which is interesting. I think you only
need one to fly and sometimes none to
vote, but you have to show up with level
of documentations. But you could make
money shoveling. Maybe your children
should be doing that today.
>> They actually were looking into it. They
were looking at an age limit. So maybe
we can put them to work. Up next, we're
going to be talking more about what's
going on in Washington [music] DTC.
President Trump's big loss.
>> Their decisions incorrect, but it
doesn't matter because we have very
powerful alternatives. I can destroy the
trade. I can destroy the country. I can
do anything I want, but I can't charge
$1.
>> And Trace Eva Partners joins [music]
next. This is Blue Brook Surveillance.
Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> On Friday, it was a risk on feel in the
wake of the Supreme Court decision.
Today it's risk off after the tariff
rate that President Trump re-imposed
went from 10% to 15% under section 122.
Get ready to get used to a lot of
alphabet soup. Uh 44 uh you have 44
basis point decline about nearly a half
a percent decline [music] on S&P
futures. You do see the dollar actually
reclaiming some of the strength that it
had from the weakness earlier in the
trading session. Yields lower by about
almost two basis points now up 4.07% 07%
rounded [music] up on the 10-year and
crude basically going nowhere as
questions continue to swirl about Iran.
A week ahead that is completely stacked.
[music] Really important to say of
course we've got Nvidia earnings which
is going to be the big event on
Wednesday. But before that the State of
the Union from President Trump as well
as Consumer Confidence, Home Depot,
Lowe's, and of course Thursday jobless
claims under surveillance this morning.
President Trump's [music] big loss.
their decisions incorrect. But it
doesn't matter because we have very
powerful alternatives. I can destroy the
trade. I can destroy the country. I'm
even allowed to impose a foreign country
destroying embargo. I can embargo. I can
do anything I want, but I can't charge
$1.
>> Here's the latest. The president gearing
up for the State of the Union tomorrow
as recent polling shows his approval
rating is sliding. 64% of Americans
disapproving of his tariff policy.
Bloomberg's Mike Shepard joins us now.
Shep, thanks so much for being with us.
Uh again, I'm just curious going forward
how much the president seems constrained
by either popular opinion or some of his
Congress members in the Republican
party's opposing
certain tariffs. Well, this is a great
question, Lisa, because the president
really has forged ahead with this policy
in spite of mounting evidence that both
the public is expressing increased
concern about the effectiveness of all
these tariffs and also just the sheer
data that we're starting to get on the
economic side. The New York Federal
Reserve Bank uh last week put out a
study signaling that up to 90% of the
cost of tariffs is borne by US companies
and consumers and not the origin
countries those levies are aimed at. And
yet the president has insisted that the
tariffs are actually doing good for the
country bringing in revenue to the US
Treasury but also creating leverage that
is encouraging investment. We have seen
uh signs that some companies including
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing are
increasing their investments here in the
US. This is an argument he will be
trying to make again uh tomorrow night
here in Washington. Uh but it is one
that may ring more hollow in the wake of
the Supreme Court loss. and he may be
aiming some more of the anger that we
just saw in this morning's truth social
post and certainly last Friday during
his uh briefing following the ruling. We
may see some of that anger directed at
the justices who voted to overturn his
tariff policy which is really the
centerpiece of his economic agenda. So,
we'll be watching to see that dynamic
and also how he lays out the path going
forward as well, including on the
questions of affordability, which
together with tariffs are increasingly a
voter concern.
>> Mike Shepard, thank you so much for
being with us. Always wonderful
reporting. Henry Trees Eva partners
writing because the president's hands
are tied on tariffs until November, be
on the lookout for other punitive
measures in the trade arsenal. Right on
Q. Henrietta, we did get uh Truth Social
posting this morning that did seem to
suggest and other such measures talking
about licenses. Henrietta, before we get
into your take on what happened on
Friday, what's your take on the idea of
using licenses to penalize certain
countries?
>> Yeah, licenses were a prominent feature
of the Supreme Court oral arguments. The
president brought it up in an interview
with the New York Times that was later
published. Um the licensing fees piece
allows for the White House to do a lot
like if you'll recall the ZTE Huawei
issue back in his first term when he
could be very punitive, very targeted at
individual companies, individual
countries and compel them to stay at the
table. That's what a licensing fee can
do pretty swiftly, massively confusing
as y'all were talking about earlier. And
to Priya's point from before, not at all
any kind of clarity. Uh but it can be
very pernicious, a lot like the AIPA
tariffs. Henrietta, if the
administration knew that a AIPA
potentially could be struck down in
court, why didn't they just go with 232
and 301 investigations from the very
beginning?
>> Excellent question. And I think it gets
to the idea that it didn't take any
time. You didn't have to get any
commentary from the public sector, so
businesses or individuals that we
impacted. The president could just go it
alone. And that's not an option for him
with 301's or 232s. and you have to have
at least a cursory sense of an
investigation. So, it takes too long.
Um, it is going to get hammered in the
public eye. You know, the vast majority
of Americans do not support the tariffs.
Most companies do not support the
tariffs. In fact, it's mostly the labor
unions, AFL CIO, the steel workers
unions, for example, that actually
support the tariffs.
>> And at this point, he's going to be
giving a state of the union address.
He's going to be sp focused on
affordability. As you said, look at the
polling. Majority of Americans do not
support the tariffs. Is this the right
message he needs going into the midterm
election? How does he quickly move on
from tariffs to something else?
>> You know, if you look at the president's
approval rating going back to when he
took office, he cratered in April on
Liberation Day and he's never recovered.
And what we're going through right now,
in my opinion, is liberation day 2.0.
Think of all the uncertainty we have.
What is the authority? The resting
tariff rates on the UK and the EU have
now risen. They are not 10% anymore or
even just 15%. It's 15% plus most
favored nation status which is another
three or four percentage points. So we
don't have trade deals with the UK or
the EU that have reciproal tariff rates
in them. We don't have any continuity.
There's another risk of section 301
investigations coming. The president
changed the rate by 5 percentage points
within 24 hours over the weekend. We are
in liberation day 2.0. And then if you
look ahead to July 24th when these
section 122 tariffs expire, you are now
then going to be in liberation day 3.0
because we'll have to cycle into those
301's you mentioned. So, the confusion
is rampant and I I anticipate we're
going to see another leg down in the
president's approval just like we did on
April 4th. Neil Gorsuch, the Justice
Gorsuch heavily focus on major questions
doctrine which defenders say basically
bars the president from the sweeping um
broad power and a lot of questions need
to be authorized by Congress. Where is
Congress right now when it comes to
tariffs? There were some individuals
that are staunch allies of the president
saying that they should basically have a
reconciliation package to push through
his use of AIPA. Yeah, my odds of
reconciliation are 20% or below. You're
not going to get another package. You're
not going to get a $2,000 tariff rebate.
The members don't support it. They've
voted half a dozen times to strip these
tariffs. He doesn't have the votes to
extend them, either via reconciliation
or not. I I think the Republican party
sees that 72% of independent voters
oppose the tariffs. Rich households,
poor households, college educated, not
college educated, rural, suburban,
urban, everybody opposes the tariffs.
You can't run in farm country on
extending the president's authority to
impose tariffs that have halted soybean
sales to China. It's a a losing argument
and and one the president is now
entering into for a second time. Henry,
it does seem though like there doesn't
seem like there's a lot of will among
Congress members to take back some of
the power that uh that Supreme Court
Chief Justice Gorsuch was saying, "Hey,
you guys have this authority?" At what
point do you see Congress stepping back
in or is this the path of travel that
presidential power is only going to grow
as the lack of motion from Congress
continues to leave no policy really
created? Well, we had actually started
to see a bit of a snowball where members
were willing to vote against the AIPA
tariffs. Just a few weeks ago, we voted
against the Canadian tariffs, for
example. But now that the Supreme Court
has struck it down, we can be left with
sort of the inertia of just waiting for
this section 122 to expire. So, I do
expect for there to be legislation
filed, for example, on issuing refunds,
um, for example, on repealing the
section 122 itself, um, otherwise
condemning the AIPA tariffs that are now
null and void. members will want to take
some of those votes. It's difficult to
get them to act though because there's
an automatic expiration and they can
successfully not see the tariffs
extended if they just wait it out. And I
think it's really interesting that they
go on vacation July 23rd and the tariffs
expire July 24th. I think that's
amazing.
>> Henry Dre of VA Partners, thank you so
much for being with us. They also are
not in their offices today. They were
supposed to come back for a voting
[music] session evidently.
>> Good luck though. It's going to be chaos
getting back to DC, which is dealing
with snow. And if you think New York
deals with snow badly, [music] okay, DC
is on a whole other level.
>> An inch and everything shuts down.
Coming up, Crispen Love of Piper Sandler
as Blue Owl anxiety rattles the private
credit market more broadly. Plus, Danny
Burgerer with your morning movers.
[music] Merc higher on news. It will
split up its human health division.
Those shares up about 1%. [music] From
New York, this is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
a day of confusion. If you want to see
what confusion looks like, look at the
cross asset board. You can see uh
futures declining. Yes, they're down
about almost a half a percent uh for the
S&P. You're seeing a dollar that doesn't
know what to do now. It's strengthening
the euro lower versus the dollar 11776.
[music]
Yields lower by about a basis points.
Crude going nowhere. Bespoke Investment
Group had this out over the weekend that
I thought was fascinating. Year to date,
the S&P 500 [music]
has traded in an exceptionally narrow
range. The 2.7 percentage point range
from [music] 1.9%
uh up at year to date or down year to
date for the low to up 0.7%
uh on on the high is the lowest [music]
in the index's history, which just
points to the volatility and the
paralysis that we have right now.
>> Right. And all the drama that's been
happening under the hood. You'd have to
think though, how much higher would the
market be today if Trump just said, "All
right, the Supreme [music] Court said,
"I can't do these tariffs. I'll
reconsider my options," but doesn't
immediately go for the 122 section and
go from 10 to 15% in mere hours. Doesn't
immediately put out truths showing his
frustration with the Supreme Court and
potentially his ability to use licenses.
I wonder how much higher the stock
market would be today, today, this
morning. And uh maybe he should consider
that. You have a good point though about
the rotation and how much is this
tariffs and how much is this really what
we're seeing with respect to AI two
hours away from the cash open. Here are
your morning movers Danny Burgerer.
Danny. Hey Lisa. Quite a bit happening
in pharma today. So Merc announced that
it's going to be splitting its company
into two. Now keep in mind there is a
patent cliff for a lot of drug
manufacturers. Merc is one of them for
their key drug uh Kitruda that happens
in 2028. So it'll be separating its
cancer treatments and its non-cancer
treatment business. Now, relatedly,
there was a deal announced this morning
of Gilead. Uh, it will be buying our
Selelex in a deal for about $115 a share
plus a $5 share uh right if a couple
things go correctly. So, those shares
surging 78%. They are a cancer
immunology treatment company. Again, all
of this with an eye towards some of the
patent cliff expiring and these big drug
giants trying to beef up their
portfolios. Uh, finally, we also got
earnings this morning from Domino's
Pizza. It was a beat across the board
for same sta store source sales up 5%.
They were able to sell higher volumes.
They were able to charge more for their
pizzas and they were able to get more in
franchise fees from their franchises. Uh
the Bloomberg News team pointing to the
success of their stuffed crust pizza.
And who am I to argue [music] with that?
Lisa, thank you so much Danny. I have a
feeling that a lot of college kids agree
with you. On our radar this morning, US
Customs and Border Protection will stop
collecting tariffs deemed [music]
illegal by the Supreme Court. The agency
says it will deactivate all tariff codes
linked to the now defunct IPO related
orders tomorrow. Trade Representative
Jameson Greer saying trade deals with US
partners remain in place and should be
honored. The EU, meanwhile, is preparing
to freeze the ratification process of
its US trade deals until receiving
details from the Trump administration.
And lastly, the US and Iran set to
resume nuclear talks in Geneva on
Thursday. The Trump administration is
pushing for concessions as it continues
to build up a military presence in the
Middle East. The president warning
limited strikes on Iran are possible.
And what we were hearing from Norman
Rule earlier this morning, AMH, is that
increasingly likely given the fact that
we have not seen a buildup of this type
without some sort of military action.
>> Right. We haven't seen this type of
buildup since 2003. At the same time,
the president hasn't made a final
decision. He has talked about, there's
been a lot of reporting that potentially
that buildup they think would force the
Iranians to really negotiate at the
negotiating table. Norm R says they're
just buying time. And I think the key
question for the regime right now, do
you save face and just take the hit in
terms of a strike and potentially be
able to shore up your regime? That's the
existential threat. Or do you cave at
the negotiating table? And that's what
they're dealing with right now. And
we'll see how the Geneva talks go on
Thursday. Yeah, but this is another
thing to watch given the fact that
geopolitics still very much in play uh
and potentially even more so after the
AIPA ruling. Turning back to markets and
a real focus on private equity. Private
equity profit returns falling to their
second lowest level since the 2008
financial crisis. That according to
Bane, Blue Owl adding to stress in the
sector. So that's the private equity
side of the private credit side. Blue
Owl permanently shutting the gates on
one of its funds, preventing investors
from withdrawing cash and selling assets
to return investor capital. Chrisen Love
of Piper Sandler is maintaining his
overweight rating on the stock after
cutting his price target earlier in the
month, writing, "We view the
transactions as an incremental positive
and also gives us confidence that its
other private credit vehicles will be
able to meet upcoming redemptions."
Chrisen joins us in person in the flesh.
Thank you so much for braving the snow
and being here with us. Uh so I want to
start with just on a you know 30,000
foot level. How big of an existential
threat do you think has been introduced
to the private credit sphere because of
retail investor involvement on an
increasing level?
>> Yeah. So it's very interesting on the
retail side and it's you have to step
back and these are semi-liquid products.
So it's this what we've seen recently.
It's actually a good reminder to retail
investors that when you're investing in
these types of products they are
semi-liquid. you might not be able to
get liquidity next Wednesday. It's a lot
different than say buying a stock of
Apple or an um S&P ETF. So, I think this
is a good reminder and it could impact
retail flows over time, but um I think
it's um definitely important to keep an
eye on this.
>> So, there are a couple of different
aspects of this story that I find
interesting. On one hand, there has been
a focus on bringing more retail
investors in. On the other hand, there's
been more investment on the part of
private capital to AI related sectors
and to a lot of technology that requires
fixed income that requires credit
investors to really back these
investments. I mean, how much does this
highlight the difficulty of having
liquidity at a time of such great
uncertainty around what the disruption
is going to look like tied to AI?
>> Right. Absolutely. the AI um story over
the last few weeks has definitely picked
up. And looking back a few months ago,
it seemed like some names including Blue
AL were under fire for being invested in
AI and data centers and people were
talking about an AI bubble. And then
more recently in the last few weeks, you
have AI disruption um and disrupting
software and um and Blue does screen as
one of the higher um investors in the
software sector. So that's what people
are really focused on now. And it comes
back to where Blue was able to sell um a
a good chunk of assets just last week um
with a a good portion of them being
software.
>> Yeah. Although they are preventing
investors from withdrawing cash and
they're giving sort of a broad
distribution and people are wondering,
okay, well what's left, right? Are they
just selling the good stuff at 99.7
cents on the dollar and they have a lot
of other stuff that it's going to be a
little bit more difficult. I mean I just
wonder how much you see this as the tip
of the iceberg. really haven't seen the
reckoning just yet,
>> right? And I I think it's a little bit
nuanced when you look at the the gating
factors that show up in the the
semi-liquid non-traded BDC funds. So, if
you look at OBDC2, so they sold $600
million of loans last week. And what
they're doing, it's not necessarily
gating or preventing liquidity from
going back to investors. They're
actually returning capital. So with
those sales last week, they sold roughly
35% of the portfolio. Within the next 45
days, investors are going to receive 30%
of their capital back and then 5% plus
quarterly on a a go forward basis. So
you get to the end of the year and you
have investors receiving 50% of their
capital back for this fund. So this was
a close-end fund. There was always going
to be some type of liquidity event. It
could have been an IPO. It could have
been a merger with the public vehicle,
which they tried to do late last year.
That didn't work due to the valuation of
OBDC. So, this is the other option where
they're going to be returning capital
back to shareholders.
>> There was another story Business Insider
wrote about Blue Owl and the fact that
they couldn't secure the financing for a
data center in Pennsylvania. I think it
was about $4 billion. Is that an AI
story or is that a concern for Blue Owl?
>> So, I I think it's more of an AI story.
When I look at the the data center
opportunity for um for the alternative
space, there is just so much demand. All
the alternatives, Blue and others,
Blackstone, etc. are looking at so much
demand for the AI data center space and
Blue they acquired IPI a couple a couple
years ago and that has been able to give
them a foothold in this space where it's
going to be significantly growing over
the the coming years. And um I think and
when you also look at these um
investments as well, you have to take
into account they're it's not equity.
It's more real estate focused or credit
focused. They're 15-year leases. There's
rent escalators and they're able to
earn, you know, very attractive returns
on that.
>> We are seeing Washington sound the alarm
on this, notably Senator Elizabeth
Warren. Do you think that's going to
impact the space and retails investors
and the fact should people be questions
again about should people have this in
their 401ks? Yeah, I think that's a
great question and when I look at the
intermediate or long-term risk to what's
happening right now, I think it's going
to change how retail looks at the asset
class and what could happen going
forward. the last few years have been
really focused on the private wealth
channel and then of course there's been
a lot of news in the last 6 months or so
of potential 401k and as I said these
are semi-liquid products so you have to
keep that into account but when I look
out over the next 6 months year plus
this could change how these types of
assets are in 401ks and you could have
plan sponsors and employers not
necessarily wanting the headline risk of
including private credit private equity
into 401k plans.
>> What's the liquidity backdrop for a
number of these private debt investors
based on the fact that we are expecting
a significant amount of disruption? I
don't know if you watched or if you uh
read Catrini7 and some of the analysis
the sort of doomsday uh futuristic
annihilistic kind of a view of white
collar work going forward. Do they have
liquidity to take advantage of some of
the fallen angels or some of the beaten
up players at the same time that they're
being forced to potentially return
capital or seeing losses on some of
their loans?
>> Right. Absolutely. And I think you you
look at the liquidity in two separate
ways. One is liquidity back to investors
like the non-traded BDC funds. And I
think the blueout sales last week were
actually a positive on that where they
were able to sell 1.4 billion of loans
at 99.7 uh cents on the dollar. And then
just on liquidity for investing and
taking advantage of whether it's
software investments or other areas, the
alternatives have tons of dry powder and
they have have capital to put to work
and that's Blue, that's Blackstone,
that's almost everyone in the space
where there has been a lot of capital
that has flowed in especially on the
institutional side. So they do have the
capital to put to work. As an analyst
facing this amount of uncertainty, how
do you even begin to quantify what the
disruption could look like given the
fact that you're hearing polar opposite
equations about what this will do to
employment, what this will do to
business models, what this will do to
the default rate going forward,
>> right? Yeah. There is a massive
sentiment divide when you look at what
the alternative asset managers, the
management teams are saying on quarterly
earnings calls and and intraquarter
versus what how the investors are are
viewing the space. So it's something
that we need to keep a very close eye on
and I think if you look at the last
couple of quarters which is when a lot
of the worries have really ramped up is
results have been very good but you have
also seen okay there's investors are
looking okay what's 6 12 months down the
road and on the software side all the
alternatives they gave their software
exposure when you're looking at a
percent of AUM uh most of them were
somewhere in the 2 to 8% range range.
So, it's definitely a worth it to keep
an eye on those and you have to be
focused on okay, not all software is
created equal. It's where are you
invested in the in the software stack.
>> Krispen, thank you so much for being
with us. Krispen, love of Piper Sandler,
be safe out there as you try to get
home. It's something that I talk about
at home all the time. AMH, I mean, this
idea of how much disruption there's
going to be. And then last night, uh, my
oldest son sent me a six-page prep note
or orchestrated by Claude that he sent
to me for this morning. That was h but
at the same time highlighting his use of
it.
>> Well, they do say that actually it's the
kids that are getting so used to using
this. They're the ones that know how to
adapt and they're going to be the ones
that are ripe to have those jobs coming
out of college, the individuals that are
learning on these AI models right now.
>> Yeah. And then you talk to their moms
and they're all freaking out. So, which
one is it? We shall see. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yahira Anna and Dehyra. [music]
>> Hi, Lisa. More than 35 million people
across the US Northeast are under
blizzard warnings as a potentially
historic [music] winter storm brings
heavy snow and strong winds. New York
City Mayor Zor Mdani closing streets,
highways, and bridges to most traffic
[music]
from last night through noon today.
Public schools are also closed as up to
24 ines of snow may fall [music]
accompanied by high winds and coastal
flooding.
Meanwhile, the US Secret Service says an
armed man was shot and killed [music]
after entering a secured area at
President Trump's Mara Lago estate.
Agents say the man was carrying what
looked like a shotgun and a fuel can.
[music] Investigators identified the
suspect as 21-year-old Austin Tucker
Martin of North Carolina. [music]
President Trump was in Washington at the
time of the incident. And this was
incredible to watch. The United States
men's hockey team won their first gold
medal in 46 years. Team USA [music] beat
Canada 2 to1 in overtime. The men join
their female counterparts as champions
at the Milan Cortina Games. [music] It's
the men's first gold since the quote
miracle on ice where Team USA beat the
Soviet Union in 1980 on the exact day.
Detach McGre Lisa, [music]
>> thank you so much. They might be in
Washington DC at the state of the union,
right? FH.
>> Yeah, there was a video circulating
online. It sounded like Trump talking to
Cash Patel. Some some reason the FBI
director was there and invited them
definitely to come to the White House,
but maybe even the State of the Union. I
I mean it's huge. The US has lost to
Canada. I [music] think 2002, 2010. I
think this is only our third Olympic
goal. Is that what your hierra just
said? So, I mean a pretty incredible
game.
>> Yeah, definitely uh one that the US will
be celebrating. Up next, bracing for
tariff turbulence.
>> We are all doing calculus now trying to
figure out sort of how this feeds
through to our individual businesses as
well as to our partners. There'll be a
lot of turbulence that goes on.
>> Torston Slock of Apollo joins us next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
The market doesn't know what to do this
morning. You are seeing a bit of a
riskoff feel at least in futures in the
United States. A little [music] bit of a
risk on feel if you look over in Asia up
about uh up it has been up over in China
down about a half a percent on the S&P.
You do see a little bit of dollar
strength after having weakening earlier
this session. 11776 Euro dollar cross
[music] and tenure yields lower by about
one basis point under surveillance this
morning bracing for tariff turbulence.
>> We are all doing calculus now trying to
figure out sort of how this feeds
through to our individual businesses
[music] as well as to our partners. It's
hard to know. So I guess there are a
couple of questions that come to mind
immediately. one um is there a
requirement to pay back the firms um
that have paid in the tariffs? If so,
that's a lot of disruption and there'll
be a lot of turbulence that goes on.
>> Here's the latest. President Donald
Trump imposing new global tariffs,
citing a balance of payments crisis
after the Supreme Court's striking
reversal. Thousands of companies and
importers preparing to launch a battle
to recoup billions of dollars in paid
duties. Torstson flock of Apollo
remaining positive writing we remain
constructive on the US economic outlook
but investors should pay closer
attention to tail risks than usual.
Torsten I'm so pleased to say joins us
now. Torson thank you so much for being
with us. I want to start there with what
the AIPA ruling does for the economic
outlook. We were speaking earlier with
Pria Misra. She said that this could
potentially increase uncertainty, a
plateau of uncertainty that could reduce
hiring plans. I mean why do you not see
that as a likely outcome?
>> No, you're right, Lisa. And Rafael
Bosik, the LNF president, is right
because we all need to reopen our
spreadsheets. First, when the Supreme
Court ruling came out, the first
conclusion was, well, a trade war is by
definition stackflationary, meaning
normally prices go up and sales go down.
If you then take away tariffs, of
course, you will begin to see the
opposite, namely goldilocks, namely
lower inflation and higher GDP. And then
came, of course, along the 15% on top of
that, which basically brought us back to
where we were before. So my forecast
over the weekend basically went through
a little bit of a roller coaster, but it
ended up basically the weekend exactly
where it was before the Supreme Court
ruling. So the conclusion is we will
likely still continue to have now some
upward pressure on inflation. We will
still have a strong economy in the
background, but it is indeed the case as
you're saying that there is still now
more uncertainty, especially because the
section 122 tariffs only are going to
last for 150 days potentially. Torson,
>> are you surprised that yields are a
little bit lower even though there is
the prospect of tariff refunds being
doled out?
Yeah, because the issue suddenly also
becomes if the re if the tariffs have to
be refunded then of course the US
government needs to go out and find
another $150 billion and if that has to
come through issuance that of course
would mean a steeper curve. So this is
why this is a talk of war between more
issuance potentially putting upward
pressure on rates and on the other hand
uncertainty more elevated still elevated
level of tariffs or that pulling in the
opposite direction namely slower growth
and therefore weaker demand. Torson, you
want a huge applause from the White
House over the summer when you said the
president may have outsmarted us all
when it comes to tariffs. Do you think
he's outsmarting us now?
>> Well, that the of course the issue at
the moment is that what has certainly
happened is that the Europeans uh the
Japanese, the Koreans, the rest of the
world has woken up a lot to a lot of
issues that before were just being
assumed being dealt with by the US. But
the issue of course is whether the
short-term costs are going to be more
substantial. And that's why this renewed
uncertainty that section 122 is
fundamentally different of course from
unlimited forever tariffs because when
it's only 150 days it raises a lot of
questions around well what is the
persistence if you will or how long time
are these levels of tariffs going to
stay in place and that does
unfortunately introduce a new dimension
that we suddenly now have to go roughly
half a year down the road and then we
need to have another discussion about
well what is now the level of tariffs at
that point.
>> So what do you think this does to the
consumer?
Well, on its own, well, if you look at
the Yale budget lab, they do have that
before the Supreme Court decision, the
level of average effective level of
terrorists was about 16%. Now going down
to nine after removal of, of course,
with the Supreme Court taking away API
now back to 15% on top of that. That
brings us to 14%. So the short answer,
Amarie, to your question is that the
impulse from tariffs went from 16%
average effective tariff rate to 14. So
that is a modestly lower forecast for
inflation at least on its own. So in
that sense it makes this made the Fed's
job a little bit easier because we now
have that inflation in the forecast is
mightly lower than what it was just a
week ago.
>> Okay. So I I'm trying to pair all of
this together. It's been a very
confusing morning for me I have to say
because on one hand you've got the
tariffs on the other hand people are
still processing the GDP number for the
fourth quarter that came in a lot
lighter than expected. People are
processing the fact that we got core PCE
higher than expected and they're
processing a lot of doomsday
prognostications about AI. I'm just
wondering where tariffs fit in with some
of the other narratives right now. I
mean, is tariffs really the dominant
storyline or is it really the AI side
and frankly even the GDP numbers that
were highly disappointing?
>> You're absolutely right. Well, the GDP
numbers first of all, of course, the BA
did say that 1 percentage point was
subtracted because of the shutdown. So,
if you add 1.4 plus one, you do get to
2.4, which is not too bad. and it's
still above the CBO's estimate of
potential which is at 2%. But you're
right, the list of bullet points,
meaning the narratives for how we all
talk about the US economy is getting
fairly lengthy. Of course, we have the
tariffs that's been around for a while.
We have the AI story that's now also
been around for a while. We also have
the important story that immigration
restrictions have slowed down of course
the flow of people coming into the US.
That is a very important driver of why
job growth has been weaker. And we also
have of course the general level of
uncertainty now coming along with now
suddenly we have to talk about trade
wars again. So you're right there's a
lot of different forces pulling in
different directions which is why
ultimately the forecast that View is
still that the economy is doing well but
it just tells us that we're going down
the fairway. We feel comfortable that
there was a 90% chance that we will just
continue all the way back to the hole
here on the golf course. But now the
probability of going down the fairway
and hitting up the rough has just
changed quite dramatically. And now the
chances of landing in the rough have
gone up from 10% to 30%. In other words,
the tail risks of one of these things
going wrong, either AI being widely
successful or AI disappointing could
also be something that puts us into the
rough. So yes, you're right. The outlook
has become more uncertain simply because
there's all these potentially very
important dimensions in the outlook
overall.
>> Torston, if AI is wildly successful,
will that be wildly unsuccessful for the
US economy? This is one question
increasingly that people are asking.
>> Yeah, I know. And there was some
discussion on Twitter exo and night
about this. I think those statements are
widely exaggerated. Of course, if we do
see the unemployment rate begin to go
up, of course, the government will begin
to react. We would see a fiscal
reaction, we will begin to see more
support to limit the rise in the
unemployment rate. But perhaps most
importantly, let's not forget AI is
solving tasks. AI is not replacing jobs.
And we all in our jobs, some have fewer
tasks in their jobs, some have more
tasks in their jobs. But there really is
very few people if anyone in the US
economy who only have one task. It's
already the case in tail marketing. Even
if you think about parallegals even
think about all the other things media
there are basically no workers in the US
who only have one task. So this whole
idea that AI revolution is going to
replace all of us. I think it is just
wildly exaggerated.
>> Torson Slack of Apollo thank you so much
for being with us and stay safe out
there. News anchor by day, snowflower by
night. Right. I mean, that's sort of the
argument of how people can potentially
maybe protect themselves going forward.
>> Yeah. Potentially maybe have multiple
jobs. Um, it is interesting. Over the
weekend though, the Wall Street Journal
did have this report from Andy Kesler
about the AI hysteria. And basically
came down to it. It's not the dystopia
and it's not the utopia. Reality is
going to be somewhat more mundane
somewhere in the middle. But you are
seeing different competing narratives
about what actually AI could mean for
society. and a lot of questions right
now that it's facing the government.
It's gonna be a huge part of policy
[music] going to the midterms in 2028.
>> Well, it's going to be a huge part of
Nvidia's earnings coming up on
Wednesday. A lot of people looking for
them to be the biggest beneficiary of
the $650 billion spending plans of
[music] just four of the big tech names.
Coming up, we've got Jason Djo of EBS,
Beimo CEO Daryl White at an
infrastructure conference, Bolina
Yurichi of Tro Price, and John Vin of
Keybank from [music] New York. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
There's not really a set way to refund
these tariffs [music] given how big the
amount of money is.
>> Our thought is that the the tariff
regime will continue
>> at some point. All these tariff
discussions will be settled.
>> The court might change the process.
Tariffs are here to stay.
>> Tariffs are an important tool that are
not going away. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and Ann Marie
Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. US futures lower with
investors gauging the fallout from
Friday's Supreme Court ruling. Trade
policy remaining in flux ahead of
President Trump's State of the Union
address tomorrow. And a slew of earnings
reports coming out throughout the week,
including Nvidia, also Home Depot and
laws and lows as economists look for new
signs about the US consumer. very much a
focus on what the tariff ruling will
[music] mean for the consumer given the
fact that they paid all of these tariffs
and the refunds are likely to go to the
companies if they go anywhere. The
confusion still swirling,
>> right? $170 billion about that we could
potentially see refunded back to these
[music] companies that lined up already
to sue the government for refunds. We're
talking about massive companies like
Costco, Alcoa. I think this is going to
be a huge question when it comes to
homes. uh Lowe's and Home Depot this
week when it comes to their earnings
call. How how do you view the new tariff
rate and do you think you're going to
get refunds and what does that
potentially mean for your pricing power
with US consumers?
>> Yeah, and right now it seems like
markets are trying to digest this and
don't really know what to do with this.
Ian Lingan of Beimo Capital Markets
coming out priced for uncertainty. He
pointed to the idea that 10-year yields
are lower by almost a basis point or
really not moving around doing much at
at all. Even though there is this
question about what refunds will do to
the fiscal deficit, what this will do to
the revenue backdrop. Meanwhile, S&P
futures lower by about a half a percent
after uh closing higher on Friday. The
swirl of uncertainty around what has to
get repaid, but also the path of travel
going forward with 122, [music] 232, and
301 very much on the table.
>> Well, the path forward is 15% for 150
days. [music] And then they're going to
do something that's legally more
durable, which we already have when it
comes to 232 sectoral specific tariffs
and 301 investigations. [music] Now,
this is why I think it could be get a
bit confusing is the president is
clearly furious. You saw that Friday on
display at the White House and you're
seeing that this morning with truth
social posts. Likely tariffs are going
to dominate headlines every single day
until we get a little bit more clarity.
And right now, we're not going to get
that clarity anytime soon.
>> And we thought that we were past that,
right? The peak uncertainty was beyond
and maybe we're just in the plateau of
uncertainty as Pria Misra said earlier
this morning. Right now we are looking
at futures just a bit lower. Coming up
we've got Jason Djo of UBS Global Wealth
Management with stocks just off a bit.
CEO Daryl White breaking down the
cost of critical mineral dominance and
John Vin of Key Bank Capital Market
previewing another big event this week.
Nvidia's earnings which a lot of people
have been waiting for. We begin this
hour with stocks sliding down about a
half a percent on the S&P as uncertainty
weighs on Wall Street. Jason Djo of UBS
Global Wealth Management writing once
the dust settles on the Supreme Court
decision the administration's tariff
decisions may still favor running it
hot. Jason joins us now. Jason, thank
you so much for being with us. So
explain why does it suggest to you that
it leads to a run it hot type of
scenario amid a plateau potentially of
uncertainty?
Well, I think we need to look at the
current situation in the context of
where we came into the year, right? The
common narrative in the marketplace was
it was of this run hot environment uh
where growth would accelerate because of
both past stimulus but also the
assumption that you have the president
who'd want an economy that would be
strong going into midterms. We saw the
first week of the year a number of
policy announcements. They're all dealt
with sort of affordability or trying to
you know lower the borrowing costs. So
the question is like has the you know
development of the IUP terrorist really
going to change the view of like how the
Trump administration is going to
approach policy this year and Marine
just mentioned that you know the
president is clearly unhappy with the
results it's going to dominate the
headlines but when the dust settles on
this are you ultimately still going to
get a direction of travel where the
effective tariff rate which is kind of
the simple way to think about this whole
tariff dynamic is it still going to go
lower this year and that was saying a
lot of people were assuming that
ultimately would drift a little bit
lower has that really changed or not and
I think you know right now we we you
know I'd say it probably has not changed
uh Yeah, we don't know for sure, but I
think the direction of travel stills
that ultimately that's going to go
lower, that you have an administration
that would want the economy to be
relatively strong going into midterms
and not actually look worse from a
stagflationary perspective.
>> Uncertainty takes a toll though. We've
seen this a number of different times.
You have companies that are facing off
with the uncertainty of AI and what kind
of disruption there could be. You're
facing off with companies that are
unclear exactly what kind of tariff
regime they're in. You have uh companies
that are facing off with the uncertainty
of what trajectory the economy will be
in. Why do you see this as not being
enough to pose a drag on growth the way
that Pria was talking about?
>> Well, think about what's already in the
pipeline for growth. We have, you know,
stimulus that was passed through the one
big beautiful bill. We're seeing tax
refunds, you know, coming in now. That's
at least running ahead of last year.
This is the kind of expected. Uh you're
going to see incremental capex spending
from AI that was bigger than what was
expected just three or four weeks ago.
So, we should see, you know, a momentum
boost going forward. So the question
then is like well how much you know
should this uncertainty relative you
know for tariffs weigh on that you know
path going forward and that's you know
that's an open question is it a tenth of
a percent of GDP is it 210 I think it
maybe it moderates a little bit but
we're still likely to see growth
accelerate for other reasons that were
already sort of taking place and that
are not easy to reverse at least in a
very short time period
>> well when it comes to reversing I'm
think of the refunds and the potential
refunds 160 $170 billion worth that the
now the US lower court for international
trade will be dealing with if we do see
big refunds to corporate America, is
that market positive or negative because
the deficit?
>> Well, it's probably more, you know,
positive for equities and sort of
negative for for fixed income. I think
ultimately, again, if it comes down to
you're shifting, you know, where the
tariff burden lies. So if if you take
the administration's word over the
course of the weekend that ultimately
tariff revenue this year is not going to
be a whole lot different than it
otherwise would have been that shouldn't
really have a material impact you know
on on where rates are especially the
back end of the curve. If these tariff
refunds actually take place over a
period of time, then it's probably
becomes very company specific. Those who
have the ability to kind of reclaim
those tariffs, let's say it's some of
the big retailers, if they're not
necessarily going to pass it on through,
you know, you know, lower prices going
forward, it's not necessarily the
exporters. Ultimately, should be a net
benefit for those individual companies,
not necessarily the markets overall. So,
you know, I'm not saying this is a, you
know, non-event at all. That's not the
case. But I think we have to sort of,
you know, you think about what is the
material change in the economic outlook.
If we compare this to liberation day
where that was a much higher level of
tariffs that investors expected, I think
this is more, you know, adjustments at
the margin. It creates uncertainty
that's not helpful, but I don't think it
changes the overall narrative for the
marketplace. Once we kind of like step
back and think about a couple weeks
where we're going to be versus where we
are right now.
>> Well, what we're going to be in the
summer is that the 122 expires and
they're going to be introducing the new
investigations of 301's and 232s. At the
same time, you say they want to run it
hot. Can we expect more when it comes to
fiscal policy out of this Congress
before the midterms?
>> Well, I think that's very unlikely. And
I guess the real question is like, you
know, how much does the administration
go forward with these investigations? We
know they will. The question is when
will they impose tariffs? What magnitude
will they be? There's a lot of
discretion there. And so once again,
sort of, you know, sort of maybe things
calm down a little bit. Where what
levels will they put it in? And while
they do it in such a way that will
create perhaps exemptions, car votes,
things that were already taking place
with, you know, certain food products,
steel and aluminum, that would again
suggest that the overall direction of
travel for the effective tar, the
overall drag on the economy from these
tariffs, you know, is actually going a
little bit lower, not higher. Again,
this is a conjecture. Um, you know, but
I think that's sort of not an
unreasonable conjecture that ultimately
that was the path before. Has it really
changed? Maybe the magnitude, but I
think not necessarily the direction.
>> So Jason, would you be taking advantage
of the uncertainty that's currently
being priced in on the margins? the fact
that you've seen the S&P essentially
going nowhere at least on an index level
and would you recommend that your
clients go more heavily into US equities
at a time when everyone's looking
outside?
>> Well, the story that we we have for the
markets right now is we kind of kind of
call it the great broadening that the
equity markets you know for multiple
years have been dominated by US large
cap growth companies, large cap tech.
What we're seeing over the past year and
it's continued this year is sort of
broadening out of performance whether
it's within the US to other sectors that
we like that are more cyclally oriented
whether it's international markets. So
we think that will continue. That story
has not changed. And it is true that the
S&P is in been a pretty tight range from
about 6,800 to 7,000 really for a couple
of months that may not really change
materially. But with any of their sort
of opportunities and ultimately I think
as the economic data sort of
materializes, you see this acceleration
as earnings kind of come in and you have
sort of stalled earnings growth that
will be sort of allow the market sort of
break above the range they've been. I
may take a little bit of you time
because there is this tariff
uncertainty. There's still the questions
about AI disruption like how companies
will will sort of you know work through
that. But the direction it travel to me
is ultimately the economics will will
and the growth story for earnings and
GDP will justify equities in the US and
globally going higher by year end.
>> In this kind of environment, Jason, do
you prefer liquidity over liquid assets
that might offer at least on the face of
it a little bit extra incremental yield?
Well, I think from a at least from a an
equity market perspective, you know, one
of the things that I started to think
about, especially dealing with with, you
know, wealth clients, those who can have
a longer horizon, in some ways, if
there's a lot of volatility, you get
market pullbacks, you can be a liquidity
provider rather than asking for
liquidity. So, I think that's something
that I look for is, you know, if there's
dislocations or disruptions in the
marketplace for reasons that are perhaps
technical related, you know, as the
market sort of overshoot as they react
to this information, does it create
opportunities to sort of take advantage
of that if you can take a longterm
horizon? So that's kind of the way I
think about the liquidity dynamic right
now. Given the market's volatility, it's
really hard to be too nimble. So it's
trying to take a perspective like do you
ultimately believe the long-term
structural story has changed? If it
hasn't and the market sort of is
dislocated, that's an opportunity for
you to provide liquidity rather than
taking advantage of liquidity in the
marketplace.
>> Jason Djo of UBS Global Wealth
Management, thank you so much for being
with us this morning. Uh as we are
sitting here in this lovely warm studio,
New York City is in a state of
emergency. Much of the east coast faces
blizzard conditions. Liono Mois of ABC
News joins us now. Hopefully, he hasn't
blown away, although he does have some
more snow on him. It does seem like
things have kind of picked up.
>> Yes, things are picking up and you're
revving it in my face, but you know,
this is the name of the game. We have
had a lot of snow. It has been coming
down constantly all morning. The snow is
getting a little bit bigger. It is
coming down heavier. And the wind is
certainly blowing. Um we are in a travel
ban until noon here for the entire city
of New York. They have just extended it
in the just a few minutes ago for New
Jersey as well. They really want people
off the roads so they can focus on
clearing them and keeping everyone safe
and these conditions are not going to
let up at least until a little bit later
this afternoon. So this has been an
ongoing situation. and I have been
standing in this one location since
about 3:00 this morning and it has
constantly just been coming down.
>> Well, this raises a question about some
of the other travel mechanisms like
includ in including the airport. I mean,
we do know that 5,000 flights have been
cancelled. Do we have a sense of what
the processes of reopening? I'm thinking
about schools with school days as well
as of course some of the mass transit.
Yeah, those are really important
questions. So, mass transit uh was
cancelled for things like the Long
Island Railroad. Some of the regular
subway routes had to be postponed as
well. Hopefully, those will be up and
running sooner. A lot of flights are
cancelled, though. A lot of people are
not going to be getting out of here
until at least Wednesday. 5,000 flights
canceled today. Another 5,000 already
cancelled for tomorrow. And as we see
each and every time that there's a big
weather event, there is a ripple effect.
It takes a while to get those flight
attendants who too might also be trapped
back to New York to then get you to your
destination home. So, you know, it is
pretty. Hopefully, people are able to
enjoy it if they can do it safely, but
we are going to be dealing with this for
quite some time.
>> Well, thank you so much for staying out
there and hopefully you can get warm
soon. ABC's Lionel Moise, thank you. Up
next, we've got the morning calls plus
Beimo CEO Daryl White breaking down the
cause of critical mineral dominance.
That's coming up next. [music] This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Heat. Heat.
[music]
I think we're going to see pressure on
the markets. I think Marcus would have
been relieved to get past the tariff
issue and it seems like it's going to be
front and center again. Given that he
likes maximum pressure, I expect a lot
more noise as he tries to put the clamp
back down on China. So, that's why I'm a
little bit nervous about markets, right?
[music] This 10% or 15%, it's not done.
>> That was Peter Shear of Academy
Securities. as we do see uh equities
futures just a bit lower this morning on
the heels of some of that uncertainty
down about 4/10en of a percent we had
seen dollar weakness earlier this
morning now essentially [music] flat on
the euro dollar cross 11785
interesting to note and this is
something that Ian Lingham pointed out
as well the stability in bonds it was
thought to be this riskoff move in bonds
if we did get uh this AIPA ruling by the
Supreme [music] Court we're not seeing
that image I think this is interesting
given the fact that refunds are probably
coming and this does call into question
how much revenue the US will get.
Probably, but maybe not so sure and it's
going to take months. This isn't going
to be an overnight [music] story when it
comes to the refunds. This is going to
be adjudicated in court and potentially
it won't even be all of the $170 billion
[music]
that individuals are lining up for those
refunds. So, I think that story is going
to take a lot more [music] time to play
out. And then what do we have to deal
with in the short term? It's the fact
that we still have a 15% tariff rate.
It's a little bit lower than the
effective tariff [music] rate, but as
Leland Miller said, tariff rates are not
collapsing.
>> Yeah. And now we deal with licenses.
Evidently, we'll be parsing through that
[music] uh going forward. Time now for
the morning calls. First up, Althia
upgrading Nvidia to buy ahead of
earnings, calling the stock quote, too
cheap to [music] ignore. Those shares
are up 310 of a percent in pre-market
trading. Next up, BTIG lowering its
price target on Snowflake ahead of
earnings later this week, noting
initiatives only target existing
customer spends. Those shares lower by
4/10en of a percent. And finally, Wells
Fargo upgrading Alphabet to Overweight,
saying it has quote key traits of an AI
winner. Those shares up a half a
percent. Let's head over to Beimo Global
Metals Mining and Critical Minerals
Conference. The US moving toward a
strategic reserve as governments and
corporations race to secure raw
materials. BIMO sits at the center of
the shift as one of North America's
largest crossber lenders. BIMO CEO Daryl
White joins us now. Daryl, I hope it is
much better weather where you are right
now. I want to just start with how
important and how much more activity
this sector has seen given the fact that
there is this renewed interest in
building out the US infrastructure.
>> Yeah. Well, thanks for having us, Lisa.
And the weather is a little bit better.
I hope you're keeping safe in the snow
and the storm. Um, it's very important
when I step back and think about what
we're hosting here this week. It really
is the greatest metals and mining show
on earth. We've got uh in the
neighborhood of 7,600
one-on-one encounters that we're
coordinating and hosting. We've got 350
capital providers, which is the most
we've ever had in our 35 years doing
this. And we've got uh over 600
corporates who are here uh as well
taking part in a really important
conversation I think in this moment in
time in particular when we think about
the glo global forces that are colliding
into the critical mineral space. This is
a very important conversation as at a
very important time for the economy and
for the future of the next five or 10
years of our resilience agendas.
>> Darl, we'll get into exactly what the
demand could look like, which metals are
going to be priority, what the
production plans are going to look like.
I am curious how much people there are
talking about tariffs this morning given
the AIPA ruling by the Supreme Court.
The fact that metals might be among some
of the most affected.
>> Yeah, you know, Lisa, I think it's early
days. I mean, the announcement's a
couple of days old on AIPA. If you look
at the market reaction, it's been pretty
subdued as we've all been talking about
this morning. I think part of that is
because some of the outcome that we've
saw over the last few days was probably
priced into bond markets. So, we haven't
seen much of a reaction there. And if
you talk to most of the corporates that
we're dealing with, the reality is over
the course of the last year or so, the
instability and the volatility that's
been brought by various decisions over
the course of the last year on tariffs
have become a little bit more normal
course. So in the meantime, they've
rebuilt supply chains or organized
themselves in different ways to have
resiliency and how they think about
dealing to surprise or maybe not such a
surprise uh as the case may be depending
on the audience. Uh so in the meantime
uh more stable than you might think. How
much do you hear also a discussion
around domestic production and
expediting some of the licensing around
getting say for example the copper mine
in Arizona up and running at a time when
there is this priority on metals of all
sorts.
>> Yeah, that's a live conversation. I mean
I think it's and I think it's a very
important one because if you think about
the confluence of two forces, we've got
the demand being driven by the AI power
up. So the newest industries are
literally dependent on the oldest
industries in addition to the global
order reorganizing at the same time.
There's a massive demand push here and
the response to that at the end of the
day is going to hit a bottleneck on the
supply side. So the the needed
reorganization of permitting of getting
to market faster of regulatory reform is
a really active conversation and I think
as you know we're seeing some positive
developments on that particularly here
in the United States. Are companies
feeling confident right now though to
pour money into the United States in
this sector?
>> Uh, I think companies are feeling
confident and perhaps more importantly,
we've got investors who are feeling
confident and trying to pick their
spots. And when we look at the North
American continent, it's particularly
attractive. There are other places in
the world that are attractive as well,
but they may come with a higher risk
premium.
>> Do you think do you see consolidation in
this space? I know there was potentially
going to be a Rio Glenor deal that fell
through. But do you see potentially that
this space right now, given everything
you've described, is right for more
consolidation.
>> Yeah, there is a lot of talk of
consolidation. We've seen uh a fair bit
of consolidation over the last 6 to 12
months, haven't we? And right now, if I
look at our own internal pipelines,
they're as full as they've ever been.
Our teams have been responsible for
advising on 70% of all M&A activity that
we've seen in the sector globally in the
last four years. We expect that to
continue as we go through this year and
the conditions both from a capital
perspective as well as the efficiency
perspective of the producers are pretty
are pretty constructive for that
consolidation theme as well.
>> This is a space that the Trump
administration has taken aim on to take
actual equity stakes. Has that been
positive or is that concerning to the
individuals you're talking to because
potentially it means less competition?
Yeah, but I I would say on balance it's
a very good question, but it's generally
been positive because it feeds into the
narrative of needing more reliable
bankable solutions on particular demand
signals. So, we've got a demand signal.
We can set a floor. Capital craves
certainty as we know and certainty isn't
a luxury. Certainty is something that
folks need in the sector to make those
investments. So on balance, well
structured, these are considered fairly
positive interventions and we're seeing
other countries around the world slowly
follow step and look at projects like
these as well.
>> Darl, there is a lot of controversy
certainly in Montreal. I was just
actually in Montreal just not a long
time ago and I was overhearing people
saying that they're trying to avoid
going to the United States and you could
definitely feel a certain sentiment
there. Has it made it difficult for you
being uh both in Canada as well as
having increased your US platform to
navigate the growing tensions between
the two countries?
>> Yeah, look, we've been doing business
for 28 years and 277 of them we've been
in the United States. So, this is a long
game for us and it'll be a very long
game for us. We're committed. We
continue to be committed to both
countries almost in equal measure.
They're very important client bases for
us and we continue to run our strategy
as we always have. How much do companies
on a crossborder level have difficulty
making decisions about deal making about
investments when you do see such an
uncertain landscape that will affect the
long-term potentially right I mean you
think about the US MCA that could get
renegotiated I mean how much is that
affecting some of the discussions that
you hear on the ground there
>> yeah it is affecting the discussions for
sure I think what you've seen is we're
now about a year into the volatility
that we've seen around uncertainty of
tariffs all kinds of tariffs but over
that period of time. Corporates move
pretty quickly. They're able to
reorganize their supply chains, make
decisions based on the path of most
certainty, not least certainty. And you
do see some reorganization going on
there. And our bankers here have been
there to support them through all of
those discussions.
>> Building on Lisa's point and putting
hockey aside, we have seen a more
acrimonious tone coming from Washington
to this government when it comes to
Prime Minister Mark Carney. I would just
love your reaction from his speech at
Davos which didn't name the United
States but there was that tone that he
was calling out the US forcing allies to
pick between China and US.
>> Yeah, look I think in the end if you
look at the economic cooperation between
the two c countries over a long period
of time we have no anticipation that
that's going to change. In the meantime,
if you look at some of the middle powers
of the world, Canada included, are there
things that we can do for our own
agendas that we can consider what's
going on right now as a bit of a wakeup
call, whether in the country of Canada,
its interprovincial trade barriers, its
productivity and efficiency of our own,
our diversifying our trade relationships
at the same time as we pres preserve a
wonderful relationship with the United
States for the long term. Those are all
good things.
>> You also in the past talked about how
Carney should be cutting taxes. you
don't think that Canada is competitive
on tax. Do you like what you're seeing
out of the Cardi government?
>> I I I I I do and I I will also
underscore that it remains early days.
The government has been in power for a
little less than a year now uh with a
full mandate. There have been some
changes that are positive. Uh there are
more changes along the lines of
competition, along the lines of
competitiveness, along the lines of
competitive tax that always should be
considered through any government, but I
think we've seen material progress over
the last year. Darl, is this the most
attended conference that you've had of
this type in terms of all of these
questions? Oh,
>> oh, by far. I mean, people are beating
down the doors to get in here. The
weather happens to be good. I feel for
you in New York. Uh, but we've got a lot
of important conversations going on
around here.
>> FIMO Financial Group CEO Daryl White,
thank you so much for being with us and
having the time today. And honestly,
this is going to be a heated topic,
especially in the metals issue given the
fact that we're trying to stockpile
metals [music] in the United States,
>> right? the US administration. This is
also a Biden administration issue as
well. Critical minerals, this needs to
be a national security concern, how they
deal with it. We have seen different
prescriptions from different
politicians.
>> Yeah. Coming up, we'll talk about the
economic ramifications of this swirl of
uncertainty. Lorina Gerichi of Troll
Price as Wall Street looks for more
clarity on trade, on AI, on a whole host
of things. Plus, Danny Burgerer with
your morning movers. This is Bloomberg.
Good morning.
On Friday, it was a positive for equity
futures or equity markets. Today, it
seems to be somewhat of a negative
dampening risk appetite given the fact
that we did get AIPA overturned by the
Supreme [music] Court used as a
justification for President Trump's
tariffs. S&P futures lower by 4/10en of
a percent. Interesting response though,
both when it comes to what [music] we're
seeing in yields as well as what we're
seeing in the dollar. dollar weaker
earlier this morning. Now it is slightly
stronger. 10-year yields lower by almost
two basis points. So given the fact that
people were worried about the deficit in
the face of uh some of the tariff
refunds does not seem to be a problem
this morning and of course you do have
that haven bid [music] into gold. 1 hour
away from the cash open. Here are your
morning movers with Danny Burgerer.
Danny. Hey Lisa. Vander Pharmaceuticals
this morning shares are higher by a
whopping 39% [music]
receiving FDA approval for some of its
medication to treat manic episodes for
bipolar 1 and schizophrenia disorders.
This [music] is now its second drug that
has brought to market this year. So
again, those shares soaring higher.
Elsewhere this morning, all of the
paper, cardboard, container related
stocks are all falling a lot.
International Paper, the poster child,
uh, no pun intended, down 7%. an
industry report showing that prices have
dropped considerably down $20 a ton
[music] month overmonth. Analysts
pointing out that it's bearish for all
of these names and shows that there
really is a lot of weak demand [music]
at the moment. Finally, a little bit of
sellside action. VFC Corp, this is the
owner of Vans getting a downgrade over
at [music] JP Morgan after their latest
earnings were a disappointment for their
look through for 2027 and 2028, the
fiscal years of those. So they under
they downgraded and saying specifically
their Vans brand is going to need some
work before it can improve. So shares
down over 4 and a3% this morning. Lisa
>> bringing SCA back. Danny, thank you so
much for that. Turning to the economy,
investors and the Federal Reserve
awaiting more clarity on trade from the
White House with President Trump
threatening a global tariff rate of 15%.
The Fed and everyone else. Bloomberg's
Michael McKe joins us from the NAB
conference. Mike, I'm just curious how
the Fed is going to consider this given
the fact that they were looking through
it previously.
Well, pretty much the same way. Chris
Waller is probably the second most
important man for people on Wall Street
trading desk today after the
meteorologist because he's been leading
the dovish camp and he is speaking right
now here and basically said that uh it's
too early to make a judgment on tariffs
and but he doesn't think they're going
to have a significant effect because he
said uh even if the president puts on
new tariffs, it will just be the same
thing. They look through the tariffs
because they think they'll be a one-off.
What will perhaps influence him though
is if the economy continues to show some
strength, particularly in the labor
market. He's one of the people who
dissented at almost every meeting uh
last year. And he says this time that if
the labor market data for February are
consistent with the stronger job
creation and low unemployment rate
initially reported in January, it may be
appropriate to hold the FOMC's policy
rate at current levels. But he goes on
to say that uh this could be just noise
what we saw in January. And if that's
the case, if the good labor market news
of January is revised away or evaporates
in February, it would support my
position at the FOMC's last meeting that
a 25 basis point reduction in the policy
rate was appropriate and that such a cut
should be made at the March meeting. So,
we're putting a lot on that early
February announcement of what the uh
jobs rate will be in March. And uh we do
get a lot of other Fed officials
speaking this week. So we'll get uh
beyond Chris Waller. We'll get a lot of
idea about where the uh they all are
after the January jobs report and after
the uh president's trade decisions today
Chris Waller and then tomorrow we get a
host of speakers including Goulby
Collins Bastik uh Waller again Cook and
Barkin and more throughout the weekend
uh the week rather. So, uh, the storm
not slowing down the Fed, but, uh, we
are continuing to wait and see in terms
of what the ultimate outcomes will be at
the March meeting.
>> Mike, before you run back to listen in
on all of that, I'm just curious how
much discussion is there around AI
disruption and what that means to
employment and growth to some of uh, Fed
Governor Waller's points.
>> There is a lot of discussion about that
here. Chris Waller is going to give a
speech on it tomorrow, he says. So we'll
hear more from him on that. But the
economists here are all trying to figure
out what everybody's trying to figure
out. When does it hit the economy? How
much productivity does it create? And
there are several sessions at this
National Association for Business
Economics meeting on AI and what be
might be coming next. Michael McKe,
thank you so much and we look forward to
your reporting throughout the week on
this conference and exactly what comes
out of it, particularly the Fed
speakers. Binoi of Tro Price joins us
now for more amid the swirl of
uncertainty that we're seeing in
markets. Blina, thank you so much for
being with us. I want to start with
what's more important for you when you
take a look at the uh economy and the
economic trajectory for this year. Is it
the tariff side of things? Is it the AI
side of things? or is it a consumer
that's slowing down and potentially
facing a pretty uneven labor market?
>> So, never dull moment with the US
economy. Just when we thought we had
left tariff uncertainty behind us and we
could look forward to some of those
other factors that you mentioned to
affect the outlook, now we're
reintroducing that into the equation.
So, to be clear with you, I think there
are many crossurrens affecting the US
economy this year. we have this and even
labor market that you mentioned a
slowdown in the demand for workers I
think that's going to affect household
incomes to what extent that happens I
think will be also uh dependent on
fiscal policy and the refunds that
consumers are getting from the one big
beautiful bill exemptions and tax cuts
that we saw last year. So I think in the
first half of the year we can expect the
economy to be on solid footing I would
say but I think bringing in this new
tariff uncertainty does bring downside
risks to my view about the US economy
first of all because now companies will
have to deal with uh is there going to
be a refund or not? How are we going to
handle that? Do we want do we need to
file court cases individually? All of
those things are resources that you
don't spend on creating new business and
demand. So I think that's important.
Also, we don't know now what the new
level of tariff will be. And that's
another uncertainty that companies and
consumers have to deal with. And what we
learned last year is that uncertainty
does affect small businesses more than
larger businesses. And we were just
seeing small businesses uh hiring demand
uh pick up in late 2025. So I think it
would be a shame to lose that momentum
uh with this new policy uncertainty. So
lots of crossurrens uh here to navigate
for the US economy including will it be
appropriate or not uh when you balance
the risk to the labor market and
inflation? Will it be appropriate to cut
interest rates further this year?
>> Lorita, there's a lot to pick through. I
want to just uh parse one of the things
that you said which is that on the
marches this actually lowers your
outlook for growth on the US economy.
I'm talking about the AIPA ruling uh by
the Supreme Court. Can you quantify
that? Do you have a sense of how much? I
mean is it incremental like a tenth of a
percent kind of hit to GDP or is it
something more substantial in the order
of actually truly profoundly decreasing
hiring?
>> I think uncertainty around this is high.
It's still early days. We are not sure
how the administration is going to
precisely respond to this and how
businesses will as well. So, but I would
say that those downside risk are more
modest. I don't think this is going to
tip the US economy into a downturn and
that finally balanced labor market that
we're have experienced. I don't think
this is going to be uh enough to make it
roll over and to get a spike in the
unemployment rate. And I was listening
to uh Governor Waller's remarks as well
and I agree with his view that what we
saw in January in terms of a pickup a
pretty substantial pick up in hiring I
don't think that's going to be sustained
for the rest of this year because we're
still facing that lower break even pace
of employment. But I tend to disagree
with him when you translate that to the
unemployment rate. I don't think we're
seeing signs that companies are going to
engage in mass firing. You mentioned AI.
I think there's going to be some
productivity gains from AI but not to
the extent that they are completely
transfor transformative of the labor
market in 2026. So the unemployment rate
stay stable in my view. We just see a
little bit more uh downside risk to the
that solid uh growth scenario that I had
expected for 2026.
>> Well, what do you make of Governor
Waller though saying that executives say
significant job cuts are coming from AI?
Isn't that only going to accelerate the
better the models get?
>> I think so, but we haven't heard a
timeline for when that might happen. And
so, based on what we know so far, my my
best case scenario is that that could
take 5 to 10 years to get those
substantial productivity gains and to
reduce employment. We're going to see in
the first couple of years, I think, more
of an effect on hiring of lower skilled
or uh entry-level jobs. Sure, we'll see
that, but I don't think it's going to
transform the labor market and lead to a
lot of hiring this year already.
>> So, where do you think we're going to
see the labor market continue to hold
up? Is it just going to be healthcare
jobs?
>> So, we've seen that uneven uh
equilibrium in the labor market, right?
State and local health care jobs,
government jobs for the last three years
really uh driving employment. we are
seeing tentative signs of more of a
broadening in the labor market. So those
are typically asyical components of
employment and they don't tend to
fluctuate too much with a business
cycle. I think because we got that
fiscal boost from the one big beautiful
bill and because uh we got those
interest rate cuts from the Fed and
significant easing in financial
conditions in the last six months or so
that we would see a broadening of
employment and a pickup in cyclical
demand for workers. Now, because we're
dealing with labor hoarding post
pandemic and we're dealing with AI, I'm
not expecting that we'll see a big boost
in employment growth, but something in
the range of 50k per month, I think it's
possible for this year. And given that
the break even pace of employment has
declined a lot, the labor force
participation is not increasing anymore
because we're not getting those migrant
flows that we had post pandemic. That
should keep the unemployment rate stable
in my view. Florina, just quickly here,
as we look ahead to a number of
different earnings from Lowe's, Home
Depot, and a number of other retailers,
in addition to, of course, Nvidia on
Wednesday, a real question about
consumer spending and how much that can
keep going. Why is the market not
spooked by what Walmart had to say about
the look forward about a consumer that
was flagging sort of highlighting the
K-shape and some of the concerns among
consumer sentiment?
I think some of it has to do with the
fact that the composition of aggregate
in demand in the US or aggregate
consumer spending is driven a lot by
middle income and higher income
households and also part of it I think
is to do with the refunding season that
we're going to see for taxes this year
that is going to benefit those lower end
consumers uh more and I think as
inflation pressures stabilize now let's
see what happens with tariffs I don't
think we're going get price cuts because
of nominal price rigidity, but we're
going to get sta more stable inflation
going forward. That should be helpful
for real disposable income as well and
should benefit lower income uh
households. So, I think those are the
factors that companies are looking at
and and not taking a very pessimistic
view on the US household. Plus, let's
not forget that the balance sheet of the
US household is in really good shape.
There was a lot of cleaning up that
happened post pandemic and I I think
that's going to
be I think a key pillar because the US
household can do leveraging very well
and it hasn't even started to uh get
there in this process.
>> Lori of Tro Price, thank you so much for
being with us. And we're just getting a
note from Croup uh that I thought was
really interesting from Andrew
Hollenhorst saying and this might be the
reason why you're not seeing much more
of a response in the bond space. The
average global effective tariff rate
appears to be little changed under the
new regime and we expect that the new
global tariff together with other new
tariffs will raise a similar amount of
revenue.
>> All right. And that's what the
administration told us. They had plan B
ready to go and they're enacting plan B
right now. I think the bigger question
is how much corporate America is going
to get in terms of refunds or do they
get refunds at all or is that just an
absolute wash for 2025?
>> Yeah. And do that to just pocket that
for profit or do they pass it along to
the consumer. Meanwhile, let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your bloom brief with
the onra.
>> Hi Lisa. More than 35 million people
across the northeast are under blizzard
warnings as a winter storm brings heavy
snow and strong winds. Some areas are
expected to see as much as 28 in of
snow. 15 in of snowfall has already been
recorded in Central Park. Meanwhile,
flight cancellations are piling up at
the area's three main airports as they
run on [music] a modified schedule.
NASA is preparing to remove its massive
moon rocket from its launch pad to fix a
technical issue. This putting on hold
its much anticipated mission to send a
crew of four astronauts around the moon.
The agency had been targeting a March
6th launch for the Aremis 2 mission, but
now says it won't happen until April at
the earliest.
And the US Secret Service says an armed
man was shot and killed after entering a
secured area at President Trump's
[music]
Mara Lago estate. Agents say the man was
carrying what looked like a shotgun in a
fuel can. Investigators identified the
suspect as 21-year-old Austin Tucker
Martin of North Carolina. President
Trump was in Washington at the time of
the incident. That's Bloomberg brief.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yh, thank you for
being here this morning. Up next,
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus,
John Vin of Key Bank Capital Markets
previewing Nvidia's earnings that will
come out on Wednesday, a lot of people
looking how much are they the main be
beneficiaries from the $650 billion of
capex spending ahead. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
The forecast that we view is still that
the economy is doing well. The
probability of going down the fairway
and hitting up the rough has just
changed quite dramatically. It's a tail
risk of one of these things going wrong.
Either AI being wildly successful or AI
disappointing could also be something
that puts us into the rough.
>> That was source and slack of Apollo
talking about the toxic brew of
uncertainty that seems to be hitting
risk appetite. Adding to the
uncertainty, what kind of economic hit
the shutdown tied to the snow will be.
We have been seeing white out conditions
earlier. It is emergency conditions in
New York City. Uh transit has been
suspended. [music]
people are prohibited from from
traveling unless they absolutely have to
and it's been near white out conditions
at a time where people are wondering
exactly when economic uh conditions will
start to reopen.
>> Yeah, we're basically locked into
[music] the city. Uh it's absolutely
insane. This live shot is kind of crazy
about how bad the conditions are and
visibil visibility seems to be getting
worse. More than 10,000 flights into
around U around the US were cancelled.
That [music] includes Boston,
Philadelphia, New York. And as we heard
from the ABC reporter earlier, usually
this takes days [music] to recoup in
terms of the setback and also natural
gas prices. Futures are jumping right
now. So, it's going to be an expensive
one when it comes to electricity bills
when it comes to heating.
>> Yeah, we'll keep you posted throughout
the day as it does progress. Let's count
you down to the opening bell. Here's a
trading diary for the week ahead. 10
a.m. Eastern, durable goods. Tomorrow we
get Home Depot earnings, consumer
confidence, plus President Trump
delivering his State of the Union
address. Watch this space. Wednesday,
earnings from Nvidia, the big one after
all of those capex plans were announced
by the pig tech names earlier in the
earning season. Thursday, another round
of Javas claims and the US and Iran set
to resume nuclear talks. Looking ahead
to Nvidia earnings, the chipmaker set to
report results on Wednesday in the next
test for artificial intelligence. John
Vin of Key Bank maintaining an
overweight rating on Nvidia with a price
target of $275, writing, "We expect
increasing shipments of Blackwell to be
a key driver of strong results and
guidance." John joins us now for more.
John, thank you so much for being with
us. I want to start just with why Nvidia
hasn't been a bigger beneficiary, at
least to the price action on the backs
of the $650 billion of capital
expenditures announced by just four of
the hyperscalers.
Yeah, I think you know obviously a lot
of concerns by investors these days that
stock has underperformed this year. It's
basically been flat. I I think in the
near term it's just simply a function of
positioning. I think a lot of investors
beginning of the year have really been
focused on the memory trade right you
look at stocks like Micron which is up
50% year to date. You know obviously uh
you know that's been a huge topic
because of the shortage issues. It's a
huge enabler of AI and capex
infrastructure spend. So I think you
know as as memory has outperformed early
in the year I think a lot of investors
are going to come back to kind of the
leaders in AI and I think Nvidia is well
poised to start uh outperforming the
rest of the year.
>> They're going to have additional
questions around geopolitics global
relations especially after this tariff
ruling. How do you see uh any kind of
potential increase in tensions between
the US and China following the Supreme
Court's AIPA ruling? Any kind of
additional uncertainty? Do you see that
factoring into the earnings?
>> Yeah, I think China will continue to be
a topic that investors kind of monitor
very closely. I think in the near term,
you know, we have a resolution and an
agreement um with the US government and
China. I I think they've allowed the
shipments of H200 GPUs into the China
market. We think there's going to be
roughly about a three and three and a
half to4 billion revenue contribution in
the quarter. We think in the the
guidance there's probably going to be
another two and a half to three billion
dollars of of China revenue. So I I
think people are obviously going to
continue to monitor it pretty closely.
uh there is a process right now there
there is approval to allow the shipments
of prior generation GPUs into the China
market and um yeah I think it I I think
that's kind of what people are going to
be watching now
>> John do you expect that the president's
trip to China could change the policy
specifically when it comes to Nvidia
>> I don't see any sort of drastic
near-term changes right I I think uh
China is an important market I think we
are better off allowing shipments to
China versus not allowing shipments to
China, which would then, you know, fuel
further investment in R&D on the China
fund and and potentially allow them to
develop their own AI chip solution. And
then at that point, we we have no idea
what their policy and their strategy is
at that point in time. And I think the
chipmakers in the US, I think, have been
lobbying and working with President
Trump pretty closely. They're going to
get to the policy that we are uh where
we are today.
>> What about the appetite on the Chinese
side? Do you see Beijing continuing to
want to buy Nvidia's chips, most notably
the H200s?
>> I think that appetite will continue.
Obviously out of China, there has been a
lot of rumblings that the China
government is capping shipments of H200
GPUs from Nvidia and they're really
pushing their local hyperscalers to buy
domestic solutions. But the reality is
is there is such a wide performance gap
that really they they really have no
choice at this point but to kind of lean
on uh Nvidia and US technology. John,
are we going to find out more about
Jensen Wong and Sam Alman and what their
relationship really looks like?
>> I don't think we'll
see anything other than kind of just a
reiteration of the commitment between
Open AI and Nvidia. you know, similarly
to China, um, you know, we think OpenAI
is developing their own AI AS6 like
other hyperscalers are, but at this
point in time, um, you know, other than
Google's TPU, uh, there is nothing out
there in the marketplace that is
competitive to the GPUs that Nvidia
produces. So, I I think at this point in
time and for the foreseeable future,
OpenAI and Nvidia are heavily uh,
codependent upon each other. John Vin of
Key Bank Capital Markets, thank you so
much for being with us. Stay safe uh as
the weather does challenge pose some
significant challenges. I will just say,
did you see Sam Alman's comments over
the weekend? I did
>> about energy weird.
>> Humans need energy too. He was trying to
push back against this uh question
around how much energy usage uh AI would
u feed humans to warm. You got to water
them as well.
>> So why don't we just put all that energy
we're putting towards human to putting
it towards an AI robot? That was the
sense I Well, there is this interesting
uh dual approach from Dario Amodai of uh
of of Anthropic versus Sam Alman of Chat
GPT and a question or OpenAI rather a
question of how do you push back against
what could be rising animus especially
given the fact and given the concern
that people have about what this will do
to the jobs picture. Well, Anthropic is
pushing back when it comes to how the US
government is using their um clawed
approach. And actually, Axios has a
story that Pete Hgset, the defense
secretary, will be sitting down with the
Anthropic CEO tomorrow. Uh potentially,
if Anthropic continues to push back
about how their AI tools are used by the
military, that might mean that that tool
might not be used anymore in the
military. They may no longer be a
customer. So there's a lot of big
stories taking place right now. Live
discussions about how AI is being used,
at least when it comes to the defense
sector.
>> Yeah. And how much say some of these
CEOs have over how their technology will
be deployed when used by certain
players. Right now you are seeing that
riskoff feel. Will it last throughout
the day? Coming up tomorrow, we'll parse
through it all with Cameron Dawson of
New Age Wealth, Bob Michael of JP
Morgan, Libby Cantrol of Pimco, and Kate
Moore of City from New York. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance. Please stay safe
out there throughout the day.